

# PARAKEET Discussion


####   Wednesday, Aug 25th at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT. 

Scribe: 

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. [PARAKEET Polyfill Sign-up](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/7)
2. Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) \
[PARAKEET Client-Side Decision Logic](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET_Client-Side_Decision_Logic.pdf) 


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
4. Paul Jensen (Google Chrome)
5. Brain May (dstillery)
6. Sergey Tumakha (Microsoft MSAN)
7. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
8. Newton (Magnite)
9. Wendell Baker (Verizon Media)
10.  (Magnite)
11. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH)
12. Paul Farrow (Xandr)
13. Fred Bastello (Index Exchange) (late)
14. Joel Pfeiffer (Microsoft)
15. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
16. Tamara Yaeger (IPONWEB)
17. Isaac Schechtman (IPONWEB)
18. John Mooring (Microsoft)
19. Aleksei Gorbushin (Walmart)


### Notes:



* **Kelda**: Agenda: [PARAKEET Polyfill Sign-up](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/7), Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) & [PARAKEET Client-Side Decision Logic](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET_Client-Side_Decision_Logic.pdf) from last call.
* Client-side decision doc is attached. Digest on your time.
* **Jeff Kaufman**: no longer referring to trusted score URL name. good. 
* **Mehul Parsana**: confirming, aligning with Parakeet, with no confusion. Renamed variables. So that path to conversion does not interfere with implementation. More details on GH
* **Kelda Anderson: **Parakeet polyfill onboarding process- not complex. We are asking to participate. Would like feedback, create flow and engagement. Publishers and advertisers in the next quarter. We will continue individual conversation in GitHub.


## Details: [Microsoft PARAKEET Polyfill Onboarding Registration](https://edgedevportal-dev.azurewebsites.net/en-us/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/parakeet/registration/)​

 **Ask:** Ad-Tech partners (SSP/DSP/Publisher/Advertisers) to run functional test during Q3 2021​


 **Signup Steps:**


  Open a [new Polyfill-Sign-up issue](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Polyfill-Sign-up&template=parakeet-polyfill-sign-up.md&title=%5BPolyfill-Sign-up%5D) & identify your company and the groups you are working with.

  Complete the steps on our [PARAKEET Polyfill registration page](https://edgedevportal-dev.azurewebsites.net/en-us/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/parakeet/registration/) and link your [new Polyfill-Sign-up issue](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/new?labels=Polyfill-Sign-up) to your registration request.​



* You can choose to Register as a Publisher/SSP, a DSP or both
* To Register as a Publisher or SSP and will be required to provide the following:
   *  A  Top-Level Domain you would like to enable for PARAKEET Testing
   * An Anonymized Proxy URL you would like to enable for PARAKEET Testing

## Two Staged Approach-PARAKEET Test Plan 


#### Stage1 [Q3 2021]: Functional Testing to validate PARAKEET 

  GOALS:
   Validate PARAKEET APIs can be used to replace existing 3p cookie-based functionality ​
   Confirm if the PARAKEET model that retains auction in SSP/DSP is relatively easy to enable  [PARAKEET Polyfill library ](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill#parakeet-polyfill)for ad interests, ad request, and rendering ​


* Implement ad serving flows – user features in browser and runtime read access ​
* Provide robust ad parameter setup – placement size, location, device, etc. ​
* Data flows and key management for user feature encryption/decryption ​
 
 Dev setup 
  * Advertiser.com JS changes to leverage polyfill library to handle user features ​
  * Ad Request changes to access user features ​
  * Ad server changes to accept user features in request (instead of cookie), and enable ad serving 

  * See Publisher / SSP [Set-up steps](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill#publisher-page-changes) in GitHub  
   * See DSP [Set-up steps](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill#advertiser-page-changes) in GitHub  
 

#### Stage2 [Q4 2021]: Set level of anonymization needed to balance privacy vs. monetization ​

 GOALS:​   
  Evaluate Privacy and Monetization criteria for PARAKEET ​ 
  Influence industry standards by meeting privacy, monetization, and adoption needs ​ 
 



* **Michael Kleber:** Question-- what anonymization is going to look like and when? How to pass through anonymization looks like.?
* **Mehul**: q4 function test achieve parity. then which signal to remove as part of anonymization. If we remove the signal, what will be the impact? User selection, granularity- some open questions.
* **Michael Kleber**: We ran into a question about anon. We heard questions about distinguishing parameters that are necessary vs. nice to have parameters improving quality. Maybe quality can be made up by MACAW, etc. Do you make a distinction between these?
* **Mehul**: In the original PARAKEET explainer, we created add properties and had targeted. We intend to use targeting.  Ad properties we want to touch as low as possible. Landscape/portrait.. In time this property will grow, but we want use more publ … ad type is required, language, native, display.. Objective: start with targeting, may stop there if enough to achieve parity. When we use interest, geo, etc getting granular. We will like to enforce K-anon
* **Michael Kleber**: publisher code and ad unit,.. are separate top fields. Needs to be passed through. h unchanged.
* **Mehul**: yes, we need to know who is paying etc
* **Brian May**: I mentioned in other groups that it would be helpful if we could have a data dictionary that explains the elements in an ad call and if they are from the publisher or they are independent of the user.. From related to user or publisher. Clear distinction privacy-preserving or could be deterministic to identity.
* **Mehul**: trying to understand the question better: in the API you want to note what parameters will impact the privacy and which will not
* **Brian May:** some tell nothing about the user, some impact anonymity, second tell some, third definitely identify users. Develop a data dictionary that would help to specify which parameters fall into 3 buckets
* **Mehul **Some signals are volum. Publisher may fill based on content of page or historical interest. We are not specifying which. People can try to pass an identifier, try to get over. It will be hard to make clear distinction in the API. Can write intentions behind parameters, but up to publ to use. 
* **Brian May**: If somebody asserts that param can be used to identify. if we have these things listed somewhere as potential issues, we can collectively figure out what things are privacy-preserving.. We can identify if somebody if going off track. which parameter are identifying? We have stacks of data, but not clear notion, a distinction which ones are strictly identifying. It would help to have that. 
* **Mehul**: if you can open a GitHub issue we can try to discuss more and provide some clarity. 
* **Brian May**: I can try, but may not be the right person to define the list.
* **Mehul**: open the issue to start the conversation. Let us start with PARAKEET. FLEDGE is bit different style, let us not confuse it in a single discussion.  
* Thank you
* **Michael Kleber**: to comment on what Brian is saying-- I originally was thinking along the same lines; know what parameters are intended to be more identifying and which are less identifying for doing anonymization and filtering. What I've come to realize is that even parameters that are not deliberately chosen to be user-identifying or things by their nature are general/not particular to this user could well be the key to being able to identify the user by correlating data between the SSP and the publisher. Issue #11 talks about the pub/SSP collusion risk.

 The primary privacy threat I'm worried about here is even if we can make the individual requests look pretty good, but it's possible to link it to a contextual request not through the proxy based on timestamp, then we've essentially lost all of the privacy protection. Need to prevent it from being joined to the 1p cookie. Otherwise, we may as well send the anonymized user signals along with the contextual request. We need to look at the rate that things show up, which params are important so that we can reduce the risk of that joining. The signal being user-specific vs. independent does not particularly help how we think about how the anonymization needs to happen.


**Mehul**: I agree. It is not just about the user, but also about how unique it is the window.  

* **Brian **May: What Michael pointed out is what I’m worried about, we need to have a discussion in the light of day. Everybody needs to be looking from this perspective to discuss. People will try to make this user identifying. 
* **Mehul**: Encourage to go to issue 11. We explain some of this in detail, window-based, with rate of request and window, ensuring k-anon. Making a cohort of users.
* **Jeff**: Import empirical question about k-anon. Properties- have to know which publisher, region, etc.  Provided-> can join hypothetical contextual with Parakeet enough of the time? 
* **Mehul**: based on internal analysis, seems to bubble up to high level, ok. Yes, may not hold for a very unique publisher. Large providers will have different percentile, hesitant put out internal study
* Ad request , web properties. Would like to preserve, but not all. Example: does not need to go deep enough, like to state level. 1. Publisher gives all as is. K-anom makes a decision. 2. Or publisher is aware of all traffic and can shape. We prefer second. More latency if passing all to service and letting it do k-anom. Go as much as provide k-anon, not more granular. Pass control to publishers, but we may inform when getting too granular, too unique. Or may provide weight of param . Who to pay- 
* **Michael**: Agree with Jeff. If you have only the necessary param+ time stamp, do we have enough to join? 
* **Mehul**: would love to her from GAds server where this threshold lies for you. First level auction. Rather than downloading thousands of ads to client. That is why we have MACAW flow. That is why we have sequence of steps
* ? Possibility of providing  feedback to publishers from ad server to ad buying might be hugely helpful. As for questionable parame: if there is budget, publ can be given feedback on budget, …
* **Mehul**: agree, not ready to provide complete answer. On trial. DSP signs up, get origin trial going. welcome to provide all domains,  would love more feedback. Any missing detail? What should happen after sign up? Polyfill is on GH. Adding user int group /targeting signal. Start passing requests. Reader data available and encrypted. Start getting validation. You can validate on your own on your servers, dev set up, but we are happy to participate 
* **Kelda**: we wanted to provide time on weekly calls, make sure you get support. Questions?
* **Brad Rodrigez**: open RTB coming from PARAKEET and polyfill?
* **Mehul**. Yes, on GH there. kept explainer simple, but we have it.. Interface between browser service and ad service and browser brow service condensed signals. 
* **Brad**: Polyfill utilizes Parakeet server?
* **Mehul**: PArakeet service is utilized. Translation is happening in service.
* **Brad**: ok, will take a look
* **Mehul:** explained the client side logic, Kelda shared the link. Some clarifications, name changes. Construct is same, provide function, score ads, finalize ads, comply with local regulation if k-anom lost signal. You can change idf size, quality, the bid, if..   Same document will eventually go to MPC. It allow you take business logic back to server, no need to run on client, to expose parameters.. Ping issue, we will answer in the next discussion.
* Work in progress.
* Try to enable multi-slot construct. We understand that when you put number of ads, can be used as tracking. Will deal with it, but first trying this functionally. Some certain more things. Two placements, two publishers, page takeover. New risks to deal with, just more incremental work.
* We feel that with client side worklet and client side logic and this PArakeet request c’ and s’ bring back most capabilities. create MPC service..
* **Brain May:** Thank you, gives direction
  


    Please ask questions and provide feedback by opening [Polyfill GitHub Issues](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues) & attending our [Bi-weekly PARAKEET Calls](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/3)
