<!-- Output copied to clipboard! -->



# PARAKEET Discussion

**Wednesday, April 7th at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT**

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 

## Agenda

1. [Parakeet Experiment and implementation setup](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/Parakeet%20High%20Level%20Onboarding-2021-04-07.pdf)

2. Advertiser Brand Safety Updates
    1. [Ensuring Brand Safety with the PARAKEET model · Issue #12 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads · GitHub](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/12)
3. [Publisher–SSP collusion risk #11](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/11)


## Attendees:

1. Derrick Fu (Microsoft)
2. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
3. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
4. Wendell Baker (Verizon Media)
5. Gang Wang (Google)
6. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
7. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
8. John Mooring (Microsoft)
9. Phil Eligio (EPC)
10. Sam Fortiner (Microsoft)


## Notes:

**Wendell Baker**: are you going to build this or not? We would love it if you did. Terms for running one-- we run one, we pay you to run one? Once that’s clear we can move forward.


**Mehul Parsana**: we’re going to start providing some developer tools before the browser ships so development can happen in parallel and find issues in the flow. Explaining the setup is exactly what we wanted to do, issues will continue to come up and we’ll iterate on the exact APIs, structures, etc.


Developers try it out on their own while we build out their own infra.


**John Mooring (Microsoft)**: shows slide of 10k foot view…


User interests on advertiser side. Tracking.js and advertiser.js which transforms those to some info about the user.


Changes you’re aware of-- moving user interests to browser side, adding proxy anonymization layer.


Parakeet v0, the first step toward Parakeet. This simplifies a lot of pieces of Parakeet, but the interface exposed to you should be more or less the same. We’ll provide a polyfill that will simulate the behavior that will be shipped in the Edge browser. Add interest groups via the tracking JS, use navigator.joinAdInterestGroup call to populate storage via a polyfill.


**Mehul**: the idea of giving the polyfill library that a dev locally can set up means we don’t need to ship browser code to everyone, so now dev can visit advertiser site, make changes via an extension or otherwise to add to the interests/segments, then go to publisher site to override the ad slot. The ad fetch/feature request can go on in parallel if needed, but can mimic the flow.


There could be a translator that takes out the user lookup on the backend and instead just use the features.  3 things an ad side needs to do-- modify JS with polyfill function, the ad slot thing on their local machine alone (at first), and SSP/DSP side change to just look at the features.


Will give a single-box-like setup to start identifying issues that might be breaking.


**Wendell: **something small/simple that shows the flow. You’ve set up big systems on your end before. Folks will want to see if it works. Once it’s live, see how it does.


**John:** v0.1 adds brand safety/Trust Tokens. Trust Tokens don’t pass any user IDs to your network which means fraud detection is more difficult. Fortunately we have the Trust Tokens concept which should help out. We’ll also have requests made from the proxy service to a 3rd-party brand safety tool. That’s a component that’s missing between the browser and ad network with this proxy in place, so having the proxy handle it is how we propose to handle that shortcoming.


**Mehul:** the brand safety call could move to the publisher side down the road, but for simplicity we’re starting with this to get things started to offload interface complexity. We’ll provide some trust token so there can be a check of if legitimate or not and we’ll stay focused on ad retrieval/rendering.


**Wendell:** I want to get you guys to build this. Don’t want to quibble too much with the design. But one of the things we run into is the issue of ownership. Who owns the inventory and when does it hand off? The thing we learned back in old times is the mechanism always works on behalf of the owner. So, if you are going to stand up this proxy system, which looks like an exchange from the old days: takes an ad call, does something magic, delegates it or satisfies it itself. Always an ownership issue though, which the accountants understand. They have a fictional model of the ownership. For us, the way to think about it is the publisher creates the media and offers it for sale-- copyrighted media, offered for sale on the marketplace you’re now running. The question I have now is, how much have you thought about that w.r.t. the performance of the marketplace you are now running in terms of warrantying against fraud. You said you delegate against a 3rd-party, e.g. a double verifier, to verify the activity is human. How much have you thought about that and where have you landed on that w.r.t. this infrastructure?


**Mehul**: we don’t see a transfer of ownership. Ad slots are publisher-owned. Publisher decides what ad networks/tech gets used, who provides brand safety tool, who provides the trust token. We are simplifying in v0.1 and worrying more about it later downstream. But we expect the publisher config to tell us who to route the ad request through to an SSP, what brand safety tool mechanism should be used, who should provide a trust token. Advertiser can say they want a user to have a feature, the user will have control over the locally stored features. In aggregate, ownership by advertiser, and individually owned together by user and advertiser.


It will route the request to a fixed endpoint called out by this config, doesn’t try to take ownership of billing. SSP and publisher still own where requests go for first endpoint, which it can then route to DSPs that it wants to (which is again a joint decision with publisher).


Logging/reporting is an interesting flow, but comes back to publisher and advertiser code running in frame, doing some things before passing it back to the advertiser/DSP.


**John:** this first step toward Parakeet is a simplified first model, but the tools we provide to you should be pretty indistinguishable from what finally ships. Should be testable for advertiser requests if not reporting. Goal is to build a targeted baseline for having user interests on the client side. As we iterate, we’ll experiment with various privacy-preserving techniques, using A:B testing to enable metric-driven balancing of user privacy and monetization.


Onboarding: the most important part here is that last bullet point-- we aren’t building an exchange. As part of createAdRequest you’ll specify the origin you want your ad request to be proxied to. In Parakeet v0 it will be proxied as-is, except without the IP. Any interests the user group belonged to will pass along. In this case, that endpoint is .well-known/ad-bundles and you’ll want to expose that endpoint.


**Mehul:** let’s go through the flow.


**John:** this assumes an ads.js for fetching ads and a targeting.js to extract contextual info from the page, send a message to your platform to transform into user interests. For our polyfill, you’d join the interest group instead of sending that event. And create an ad request instead of a direct fetch request.


**Mehul:** for debugging, we keep the server-side flow intact for the user. Take ad interests, perhaps take user ID to compare user interests between today’s model and this prototype. Our goal is to get to parity, and the simplest way is to think about it as distributed user storage across many machines. We expect it to come to parity with the targeting mechanism, then we work upward on privacy/anonymization/all of that which requires a large dataset to evaluate side-by-side impact. “Achieve privacy parameter X affects revenue by Y” and then analyze why will be the next phase.


**John:** example: we have a user who embeds a targeting.js. Instead of sending that event with user ID to your platform, instead it calls adInterestGroups. Later the user visits the publisher with ads.js, firing createAdRequest with contextual info and it will add interest groups. That ads request gets send to your well-known ad bundles endpoint, and you’ll respond with a bundle and it will then be rendered. The response format-- the goal is to eventually put it into a fenced frame which implies an HTML return format. Longer term it might be helpful to get CTR metrics and other things, so maybe return JSON for now.


**Mehul:** we plan to put out these polyfill libraries and tools, maybe a pseudo-floor for our own system to help folks understand what that means. We’ll have a more exact timeline on our next call. The key callout is that this doesn’t require the browser to send out code for this now, but enables dev setup for early evaluation. The reason for a polyfill is the API will evolve as FLEDGE matures and we’d like to keep as common as possible across browsers. This allows us to iterate more quickly.


**Wendell:** I think this is fine, and the details will come out with your plan.


**Gang Wang:** in v0, the ad request… will the ads SSP see the 1p or 3p cookie? Will the SSP see the interest groups?


**Mehul:** cookies no. if there’s an ad ID, they’ll get that and for now they could add the cookie themselves for this initial prototype.


**Gang**: in some setups, the publisher page can pass key/value pairs to the SSP. Will key/value pairs be supported in the ad request?


**Mehul**: in our original API construct, we have key/value pairs or rather publisher-side signals. Longer term, as long as it’s not very user specific, it will come through. But initial prototype won’t have the anonymization step. Wouldn’t recommend making it too user specific because once we turn on the anonymization those will be evaluated for k-anonymity.


**Gang:** and it will have the local interest group registration?


**Mehul:** yes, as a polyfill.


**Gang**: this polyfill library, will the SSPs/DSPs ship this library to the browsers as part of the ad tech?


**Mehul**: not sure I fully understand the question, let me know if I don’t answer it. Writing JS to joinAdInterestGroup API won’t exist today, but we’ll give you a mechanism such that it gets enabled as a local interest on the browser. Ad tech doesn’t need to ship it if it’s just for a dev environment.


**Erik**: &lt;explains that down the road we may have advertisers and publishers include the polyfill library for a scale test; this is to get the iteration time smaller so we can finalize API set more quickly before having it fully in browser and enabled>


**Mehul:** &lt;reiterating what we want for v0 is to help folks get an initial understanding of the setup>


We’ll have a more concrete timeline for these capabilities at our next bi-weekly meeting and we’ll try to write down a bit more about what sort of changes folks might need to do.


I’m assuming Google SSP might have contextual request requirement for key-value-pairs, so open to tweaking it as needed.


### 
[Ensuring Brand Safety with the PARAKEET model · Issue #12](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/12):


**Mehul:** lots of detail in the issue, please take a look and comment. There’s a few brand safety providers out there with hundred-or-so categories for sensitivity. Choice of publisher and SSP of what tool to use, but we’re trying to explain a construct/flow.


### 
[Publisher–SSP collusion risk #11](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/11)


Issue 11: would be good to discuss with a more critical mass, e.g. would be great if Michael Kleber was here. We added some commentary there, but would like more discussion.

**Kelda:** thanks to everyone that could join today. Looking forward to more issues/discussion in the repo. I’ll make sure emails go out prior to this meeting to make sure there’s more visibility and doesn’t fall off folks calendars as different meetings come up and compete for time.

**Mehul:** let’s publish the deck as well with the minutes.
