

# PARAKEET Discussion


#### Wednesday, Sept 22nd at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT.

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. Open Q&A for [PARAKEET Polyfill Sign-up](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/7)
2. Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)
3. Retargeting clarification - [PARAKEET & retargering · Issue #34 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/34)
4. [Detecting Invalid Traffic with Anonymization and Aggregated Reporting · Issue #35 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/35)
5. [PARAKEET: Clarify HTTPS requirements · Issue #36 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/36) - request participation next time.


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Brian May (dstillery)
4. Fred Bastello (Index Exchange)
5. Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
6. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
7. Phil Eligio (EPC)
8. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
9. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
10. Julien Delhommeau (Xandr)
11. Joel Pfeiffer (Microsoft)
12. Tamara Yaeger (IPONWEB)
13. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH)
14. Aditya Desai (Google)
15. Sergey Tumakha (Microsoft)


### Notes:

**Mehul Parsana**
Let’s Kick off with open Questions..

If there are none Jeff did you get a chance to look at client side logic?
 \

**Jeff Kaufman**
Yes that answered my questions
 \

**Mehul**
has anyone else had a chase to look through client side flow and have other questions feel free to reach out. 

Do we have anyone from RTB house to talk about their question Issue ..

There was also another issue opened by Space Gnome ( David Turner from Google) 


**Jeff**

Confirmed David is from Google team

 \

**Mehul**

David created an issue on invalid traffic. I was planning to go through this.

Deploying automated IVT detection models. Jeff. Do you have a context on that? Would you be able to represent that issue?

Issue #35 [Detecting Invalid Traffic with Anonymization and Aggregated Reporting · Issue #35 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/35)
 \

**Jeff**

I don't have much context on it, I can encourage him to come next week.
 \

**Mehul** 

That would be great. I think some of the fraud detection we were relying on trusttoken, but I guess he's trying to ask when the volatility models - detecting volatility and then signal on that.

 I understood only partial detail of that; it would be good to have him explain what he meant.

So another open issue from Michael. I'm internally working on drafting. I completely missed that issue, we will have the answer posted maybe by the end of this week, again, not the the theoretical analysis of it, but sort of what we are thinking on the intuitively, and then we can go back and forth in terms of finding holes into that and improving that.
 \

**Michael**

The service side-like context here is the masked LARK discussion
 \

**Mehul**

We are drafting an answer for this

So not that I'm ducking that question.

Macaw & FLEDGE was open as a question that I think last call we discussed quite a bit in detail.

So when we share X - Y, the feature sends in plain text with a helper; we kind of made a comment that we can create a fake feature vector so the helper cannot figure out which one it is --  I think the question you posted on that.
 \

**Michael**

I appreciate the bringing it back up and I will be happy to see what you have to say on the subject.
 \
**Mehul**

This competes the 3 issues on the agenda.

Unless Folks have question on Polyfil sign up or testing the polyfil.

Erik, do you have anything else?
 \

**Erik**

I don’t have any thing urgent for this week 

 We are still thinking through IP blinding and CDN story

If anyone has thought about this on this call we are open to ideas.

We’d like to understand how the ecosystem is thinking about this, how they would want to potentially deploy ad bundles, or how they typically work with a CDN today.
 \

**Mehul**

Yeah, that's the thanks, Eric. I think that is a very important detail between FLEDGE and PARAKEET. We created this server The partial job is also proxying trying to hide IP, but if we converge on that path, I think some part of the responsibility on the server can be further reduced. We can reduce the trust in the service to not do this job, so not getting actual IP.
 \

**Mehul**

For issue #36 on HTTPS requirements. It is simple enough to answer on a GitHub unless you want to have a discussion on that.
 \

**Erik**

I agree we should clarify this in the document. All APIs will be scoped to [secure contexts](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#SecureContext). Anything that takes an URL will also require HTTPS.

Will add this to github- [PARAKEET: Clarify HTTPS requirements · Issue #36 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/36) - request  to discussion for next call
 \

**Mehul**

If there are no further questions, then I think this weekend we can give people time back.
 \

**Aswath**

First, taking a step back. We had a bunch of use cases, and we talked about, you know, remarketing in market bidding, fraud detection, conversion, modeling, etc. Are they use cases that we haven't covered sufficiently that we need to bring up? We'd like to get people's thoughts on this.

Second question is more from a practical standpoint. Now, as people transition from today's 3P cookie based system into some other new system, how do? How should we manage that transition?

Is there's a date at which things turn off, or is there a period where both work together? I would like to get thoughts on this so we can refine our thinking.
 \

**Mehul**

starting w/ 2nd question hopefully we can have a ne API and light this up

Will we have an overlapping transition period

Starting with the second question, I think we have a very clear answer for that.  We hope to have an overlapping system where the cookies are still available and the new APIs can be evaluated.

Servers' responsibility will be to stop using cookies because they know it's going away at some time in the future and once the entire system transition. At some point, we can put a timeline in.

That's a high-level thought. I'm not sure how Chrome team is thinking on that front. Is it going to be an overlapping transition period, or one day, the new API comes in, and then no cookie after that.
 \

**Micheal**

No, we definitely expect there to be a transition period. If you go to privacysandbox.com and look at the timeline that we've posted there, then one of the colors in that timeline show the kind of transition period when the new API is available. Third-party cookies have not yet gone away in Chrome and people have an opportunity to try out the the new API, migrate over to it. - work with bugs and have us fix things, etc.

see [https://privacysandbox.com/timeline/](https://privacysandbox.com/timeline/) for more
 \

**Mehul**

yeah sounds good. Thanks Michael. I think there's this sort of overlapping period. We need to put concrete time to it 
 \

**Aswath**

Yeah, but I think the minimum should be six months, given the scale of the change might take, but we should. We should. Also, you know, discuss and share our point of view on that in more clear terms.
 \

**Mehul**

Coming to the next question, Eric alluded to. We assume that the creatives are fetched in one go, but the other use cases under discussion,  if there is a video creative that requires multiple fetches, how would that work? Would the entire creative hosting need to go to some sort of service?

There is code word like deals, where there's synchronization between multiple slots on the same page, and it works via a unique identifier for all requests for that page. How would that work? So there are some use cases under discussion, but I would love ad ecosystem players to start bringing them up, and then we can start hashing out some of the details.

In the Macaw world, when the bid is computed on a browser side, and aggregate reporting is the only way to get the data back.

What would be the precise billing flow is still a little bit open. I don't think billing data can have as much noise.

This is open for when we go to that MPC style world.

We can issue open an issue  ourselves and then put some notes there so people are aware of it and not get lost in this initial level of details.

Aswath to open a GH task on this

 \
**Aswath**

Yep, sounds good.

 \
**Mehul**

We look forward to some people trying polyfill APIs and libraries and open issues on the bugs you face, and then we can iterate on that.

Kelda, let's post the notes and have a few participants ready next time to discuss the open issues there.

 \
**Kelda**

Sounds good,
