

# PARAKEET Discussion


#### Wednesday, Aug 11th at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT. 

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. Client-side auction/decision support logic
2. [PARAKEET Browser Service REST API](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET%20Browser%20Service%20REST%20API.pdf)
3. Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)
    1. [frequency capping support](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/22) and other compute using client-side logic


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Joel Pfeiffer (Microsoft)
4. John Mooring (Microsoft)
5. Fred Bastello (Index Exchange)
6. Newton (Magnite)
7. Brad Rodriguez (Magnite)
8. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
9. Wendell Baker (Verizon Media)
10. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
11. Brain May (dstillery)
12. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
13. Christa Dickson (Meredith)
14. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
15. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
16. Aditya Desai (Google)


### Notes:



* Recap the last WICG meeting we presented MLARK please check out the open issued we plan to look at this in the future

While MPC flows light up this is something we for the interim 

**Client-side auction/decision support logic**



* John and Brandon will walk through this 

**John Mooring:** \
 I will quickly recap the PARAKEET flow 

We are passing anonymized contextual information and the privatized user interests in the same request over to the ad network, which selects an ad and returns it as a raw web bundle. 

We have C' and S' prime passed at the same time. 

 The drawback is that you are working w/ anonymized contextual signals and privatized user interests

 This is where the MACAW proposal comes in - the extension to PARAKEET is that instead of responding w/ a single add we are responding w/ the collection of ads that are selected w/ coarsened contextual user interests.

Steps 4&5 - 

Bidding and ranking functions that execute in an MPC context w/ not anonymized and not privatized signals.

We realize there are frequency capping and other control gaps) we are not quite to MACAW yet, but we would like to address some of these gaps

 Thus would like to add bidding and ranking.

Getting in the proposal: This flow should look familiar. 

There is a create add request function: 

This takes whole page selection signals here to set up create ad requests to return multiple ad requests & gives you a mechanism to serve up ads from multiple placements.

Bidding and ranking functions are supported.

Instead of passing through a web bundle to be immediately rendered in a fenced frame, this is now a schematized collection of ads sets.

This could be a single ad set, but to illustrate multiple ad requests we are looking at ad exchange.. 

Questions: 

**Brian May:** I am wondering about the ad request- would you consider delaying the request bundle until you decide what ad bundle you want?

**John Mooring:** Yes, we will be getting to that here in a little bit - we will address that in the response format 

As discussed, this is a preliminary API - we are open to suggestions and options on how to converge this with FLEDGE &  make it more ergonomic. 

If it does resolve successfully, you have a chance to call the finalized ad..

No major changes to ad request signals from the Original PARAKEET proposal.

To get the actual payload, we will include arbitrary ad bundle data

The Auction config for placement 1 is similar to FLEDGE

Looking at Bidding & Ranking in response format:

When we picking a winning ad, this is where we will fetch the ad bundle from. 

**Mehul**: 

This is also similar to MACAW - have a creative bundle URL and bid inference and contextual signal if the logic does not need to be transparent to the client, it opens up possibilities of what you can do w/ it

 for v0 it is probably best to make a binary decision as to whether the ad is still valid or not valid.

Parakeet ad goes in - ad comes back, the first expectation is to handle this ins a binary way- Valid or invalid. 

Please provide input on this.

 Do not have to wait for aggregate flow to come back - that is our thought on the flow but please provide your input 

**John Mooring: ** if you already have models executing in this concept it may not make sense to calculate this on client-side

 **Michael Kleber: I**s this ad really an eligible function - I am surprised that you are describing that this happens in the browser itself instead of the PARAKEET server because the PARAKEET server has access to all these things / potential inputs.

What makes you want to push this all the way to the browser? Is it to be more similar to fledge, or is there something we are missing? 

**Mehul**: 

1st, the finalized ad might not be executed inline - because you can fetch N # of ads, you could run finalized ad placement w/o going to the server again.

2nd, We do not upload S as a raw signal to we are trying to keep it as minimal as possible. Even if we get C right S' we don't want to take this info to the Parakeet server we'd like to keep it minimal on the client.

 3rd, it gives publisher control & it makes it more friendly for publishers on the page (debugging, etc.). It's not entirely Fledge-like. The largest difference is the ad cache - the ad database in the page context we are giving C' & S'', we do not think it is scalable to fetch hundreds & thousands of ads.

**Aswath**: the Parakeet - the ad function like Freq capping don’t happen on their server but can happen on the browser

**Mehul**:  this should happen in the ads server’s hand we do not want it to be a bottleneck

**Joel Pfeiffer**: 

The main concern - At the moment, you have the encryption of C & S - but what seems to be missing is how do we get from a C & S to a corresponding representation w/in the ads service.

For example - Call ads servers, you look up corresponding count values from a table you run the model using these count & model structures to return a bid. How do we go to C&S to the count values .. 

**Mehul**: It goes over into this in the explainer; at a high level, when the ad response comes back, you can include metadata

This will be further expanded in MPC flows

**Brad Rodriguez**: If you can go to the JS API for calling the finalized ad - Would the finalized ad/ JS function have access to both S&C?

**Mehul**: Yes - it will have access to C&S but will not have access to any server to work with. It needs to work locally or w/ MPC 

**Brad**: that seems good- 

I did not see in the configuration for an ads server winner to be passed in - can a pre parakeet flow be considered? 

**John**: this would be most useful to have - this bid flow parameter is listed as ad request signals. We are interested in your feedback we’d like to have this in the finalized ad request, does this have value?

**Brad**: If it's available for the finalized ad call that's fine

**Mehul**: the finalized floor can change, can make a parallel flow - its latency optimized - it’s the publisher’s decision to decide what to optimize for.

We have the bid floor discussion in GH, that we’d like to expand on

 **Brad**: The bid floor may be - the publisher and/or caller of this function should have control- there could be more to think about there

The other item is currency and bid prices, we sometimes work w/ ad servers w/ differing currencies 

**Mehul:**  the bid currency should be in the response - however, age restriction for example is primary data -data that needs to be evaluated as valid or invalid

For Bid floor, we’d like to keep it as simple as possible and finalized gets both ads to make a decision between.

**Brad:** there are workarounds but at the same time providing this explicitly should be the same there is value in simplicity for what does not need to be predetermined

**Jeff Kaufman:** Trusted scoring signals URL- how does this fit in w/ PARAKEET?

you make a call to a trusted server outside of everything else that gets rendering URL and the response 

**John**: As the seller of the signals that came into the ad network, the idea is that you might not be able to make all the guarantees about ads returning that the publisher requires. This is to make a correction that may be necessary.

**Jeff**: the Trusted scoring URL makes a call and you get a call - in PARAKEET it looks like you should not need to make an extra call

**John:** we think that it’s good for it to be there for Fledge convergence 

**Mehul:** it could e handy in the MPC flows - it’s futuristic

**Jeff**: I understand having scoring logic makes sense - the trusted Trusted scoring signals URL

**Mehul**: it’s  - if you don’t run it locally - eventually there is a call to run an auction that goes to Server and back to MPC server to run the logic - we can change the naming if this is confusing

**Michael**: it’s not coming from a sep request it’s coming back from their server already?

**John**: it isn’t the case that this is coming back in the response 

**Mehul:** once we put the document out we can open up a GH issue - we can change the name to rightly reflect

**Michael**: it’s related to the discussion we were just having - how a contextual ad acts as a floor - one of the changes we had to make in the development of fledge -  we separated out the JS logic that is controlled by the buyer vs logic controlled by the seller

Which is your finalized logic serving?

The logic is reflecting something about the ad itself or a contextual ad..  It seems like there is only 1 of the 2 options

**John**: It does contain both options-  you do have the option to specify the decision logic URL & back in the response you have the ad bidding logic URL.

**Mehul**: it’s inline w/ Macaw  - It is step 4, running for DSP - mimicking on the client for now but will eventually happen in MACAW

Our future direction is clear & this is a step towards that

**Pranay:** going back to the floor discussion in the finalized script - there are 2 auctions running in Parallel - 

There needs to be serialized logic to say when the finalized ad can be called and how is the floor from the direct ad passe in?

**Mehul**: The auction signal could carry the data from direct-sold to call the finalized ad

**Pranay**: real-time floor needs to come back to the publisher

**John**: Finalized ad is operating on - you can run your direct-sold auction at the same time the ad request is happening 

**Pranay** the finalized ad - the bid from PARAKEET is lower, what is the logic - something needs to back to the publisher, 

**John**: you would end up in the rejected branch 

**Mehul**: for now we are not making an assumption- does this need to happen in a fenced frame in the future, there is an open issue for this.

**Brian May**: You mentioned that the floor adjustment would be downward, you would want to adjust upward, not downward. Could we use an enum.. 

**John**:- We do not have to worry about this would be something you’d want to add in prebid or network side - we can take a closer look - feel free to open a GH Issue

One callout here is Frequency capping since we have that Issue open on GH- inside Generate Bid, you'd have access to information that the browser keeps about this particular ads networks execution previous wins object that can be used for frequency capping.

**Mehul**: We will put this doc out as an attachment and will continue to make edits 

 Look at the logical flow we are open to feedback & to  discussing this more

We would like early feedback on logical flows.



* [PARAKEET Browser Service REST API](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET%20Browser%20Service%20REST%20API.pdf) 

    **Mehul**: We have a standard example in the explainer - the most important part is in the RTB form and the context . **The most important part of the mapped fields is under the user object in RTB format, there are encrypted anonymized interests for each DPS.**


    We think this will be a cleaner way to test - please feel free to provide feedback on this as well


    In the original proposal, we have the ad request itself and an RTB type 


    Please take this as take away [reading](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET%20Browser%20Service%20REST%20API.pdf)


Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)



* Please continue to open questions on GH
* We would like to know what reports & stats are needed from the publisher side we want early feedback on this.
