

# PARAKEET Discussion


#### Wednesday, Sept 8th at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT.

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. Open Q&A for [PARAKEET Polyfill Sign-up](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/7)
2. Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)
    1. [MaskedLARK & MACAW, FLEDGE - sharing the feature vector with helpers #28](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/28)
    2. [MaskedLARK: Timing side-channel via only sending false reports at attributionexpiry #24](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/24)
    3. [MaskedLARK: Additional Types of Data Labels · Issue #29 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/29)


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
4. Fred Bastello (Index Exchange)
5. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
6. Joel Pfeiffer (Microsoft)
7. Phil Eligio (EPC)
8. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
9. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH)
10. Aditya Desai (Google)
11. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
12. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
13. Jonasz Pamuła (RTB House)
14. Brian May (dstillery)


### Notes:

**Mehul** : Let’s see if we have representatives for [MaskedLARK & MACAW, FLEDGE - sharing the feature vector with helpers #28](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/28) and [MaskedLARK: Additional Types of Data Labels · Issue #29 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/29)

Joel do you want to give context 

**Joel Pfeiffer:** OK, so 29 they're asking about, sort of additional types of data labels for.

Aggregation attribute model learning and reporting and things like this and the main changes it would have to be done by the browser is actually, in my opinion, much more on how attribution is sort of credited and awarded.

So if you have multiple clicks and then there's a conversion indicating that maybe a different click was the rationale for not converting.

Yeah, they're basically reply is I mean.

In our sort -mass large training perspective, it's no problem. It's easy to add this sort of loss function.

..the browser would take on this additional responsibility.

**Mehul** - overall it looks like extending a binary label to B label 

**Joel** - maybe because there was a click that happened afterword 

Modeling how long did this take for it to time out 

The browser has to keep track and extend 

Since Lawrence is not here we will post on this and we will move to 28

**Jonasz Pamuła** : I hope I haven't missed any of the discussions on issue 28. should I sum it up really quickly?

**Mehul** we have just started

**Jonasz Pamuła:**

So I was very happy to see the Masked Lark proposal.

I think the training of building models is a topic that's still open in a lot of proposals, including fledge and.

In my understanding what Masked Lark proposes is a mechanism for training/Building models.

And the mechanism that feels proposed relies on the fact that the feature vectors are can be shared safely outside of the browser. So for example.

The bidder knows the feature vector server-side and there is no reason why we shouldn't share those vectors.

With the helper services that could perform training.

My understanding is that this approach is not compatible with fledge and I was wondering if this is your view as well. If my understanding is correct and if so, do you see any ways mass Clark could be adapted to flag for example?

**Mehul**

let’s start w/ MACAW, I think we can concretely comment on that and then maybe. But Michael can comment on FLEDGE and then if that extends to that, because Macau and FLEDGE are similar somewhere.

**Michael Kleber**

The key invariant that we want to protect in fledge is yes. Indeed, the feature vector is something that cannot be kind of shared in plaintext outside the browser as something that can just be given away because it has too much risk of revealing.

The kind of information about one particular individual, but the technique that involves multiple helpers and kind of a collection of helpers doing privacy, preserving computations on information that is shared directly from the browser. Using this kind of MPC Style protection is entirely compatible with our privacy goals and our intentions. It's very much along the same lines as the kind of aggregated reporting mechanisms that we expect. They're going to be part of all of the privacy sandbox and the that the kind of guarantees that we need are that the results of all of this.

The aggregate work cannot lead to the leaking of information about individual users, and I think that is exactly what Masked Lark is. It's providing another technical mechanism to achieve.

**Mehul**

I think the one specific questions once you're asking is the privacy of C.

There are two aspects to it. 



* 1 - is we were. We are technically solving that by .. stuffing it, because this is in our T process or the batch process. So Masked Lark by providing masking the label can easily discard the additional data. While there are plain text, but it cannot still build the association easily. 
* 2- is a secret shared mechanism where CNS is kind of done a secret shared between two helpers, but either of them assumes that helpers are not colluding with each other, or not colluding with the ad server. So if you make that assumption then help annoying features.

As well assumes that it's a privacy risk, is sort of similar. So game-theoretic argument-wise, if they can potentially try to violate user privacy, they can collude and try to generate the value out of it. So how we choose the helper is where the critical question goes from here.



* In addition to technical risk or technical mitigation of these, some of these which is yet to be answered just so that we are all clear

Does it answer your question ?

**Michael**

So I think yes, you answered my question, though I don't; I cannot say I understand how it works with fledge.

I'm not sure if you want to go deeper into that. Perhaps it's a matter of me spending some time offline, but if I may ask, asking very quick question.

One of the presentations that was shared about Masked Lark.

-- how some known issues and potential solutions at the end as section and one of them says feature vector is not hidden to help.

So it means the feature vector that is used device side is known in the plane to the helper.

Uh, and I was wondering, it's not a hard requirement, and if so, isn't that a blocker for the use of mask? Larkin FLEDGE as well.

**Joel**

So so as it is, yes, so that's the originating proposal, but they're fairly straightforward for ways to mask it as well.

The simplest is ascending many vectors right? So you can send Junk along with the actual vector so it's different, differentially private. 

That style i snice because it again allows the helpers to operate mostly independent of each other, which obviously compute wise is pretty nice, like I mean not having to have them talk to each other, his, uh, just much, much easier world to live with him. So that's the simplest one. There are more complex ways we can go if we really want. It's mostly what people are willing to go with their we. We can add more you can secret share the feature vector and still sort of.

Recover, you know there's far more complicated crypto out there that we'd rather avoid if we can, such as you know, crypto flow and these things, they'll exist, but they're far more intricate, so.

**Mehul**  

What Joel talks about in terms of adding additional data, there was a sort of on a similar line.



* Yesterday's conversion measurement discussion. We presented some market-based reporting that is performant compared to DPF, so you can add some additional data to it, which increases the entropy of association, so even the helper knows unless it tries to call. It doesn't learn the probability of any combinatorial is reasonably uniform.
* 
* During the training, it doesn't know which one is a valid data point at which one is invalid. But when the aggregation is done.
* 
* You to the secret share mask which is very simple and computationally efficient. You still get a correct model without getting correct data.

So in summary, yes, we called out that question because we want to take a complete, computationally efficient step rather than doing a crypto basic rate shared, which requires a lot more computational on data. Doing crypto is not a great idea

**Joel**



* According to my understand PARAKEET is relatively straightforward, right? So parakeet has these features at the ad services anyways they simply send back the feature vector and we're done right? It's it's quite straightforward. And then as far as in Macau is concerned, most of the proposal from across says basically that the browser service handles the features and then never leave. But through the reporting and things like this, this feature vector could be sort of exposed back.
* To the browser which could store it. Now some of this stuff is to be handled via some dictionaries, right? So we need to be able to send.
* Let's say something involving likes page or or or gender or whatever, whatever your private features are that needs to be sort of a dictionary sort of passed through saying hey, if it's this, then here's the corresponding features and sort of some logic to construct it. But I don't think that this is a blocker for Makah either, and from my understanding, we should be able to have a similar sort of logic in there according.
* And the reporting with FLEDGE as well, but of course the FLEDGE experts are here so they would know better than I. But that was my impression. So and I should clarify that of course I mean you can read the proposal. There's the way the data leaves their browser, you know, whenever the recording happens is in our view private. So no single party can never reconstruct data conversion happened.
* We have other constraints that we've discussed. Not sure how much this has been sort of external, but we can comment on. Now, of course, is that things like you know the feature vector itself is dense. The features are constrained to bytes.
* Things like this. There is some additional proposals where we can sort of get into. You know, we can secret share the features as well if w

**Jonasz**

So I was wondering, in general, on a very high level like could this be a mechanism we can use in other proposals?

**Mehul**

This moves us on to our second issue.

**Joel** [MaskedLARK: Timing side-channel via only sending false reports at attributionexpiry #24](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/24)

So attribution expires parameters, so there's sort of a lot of diversions here that sort of went on in different directions. Actually, with their response is the main idea is.

Reports being sent to attribution expires so so our vision, which I don't. I'm not sure if it's clearly laid out here is that reports are always sent at expiry. They might just be masked.

So that was that's the basic idea is-the obvious question is you know you can do it? 

Attack based on the timing says it's been exactly 30 days, so this is false because they know exactly how long it's bad or something like this and sort of our basic answer. So this is we should just always send a report with different labels when the values expire, it'll just have masks that remove the values back out. So so if everything else works fine.

To everyone’s satisfaction, I think that this can be alleviated as well.

**Melul**

Also, Charles isn't here either so.

Those are the two that were discussing this in depth so.

But yeah, I think that's it. I think those are the interesting ones. A lot of it just needs to be cleaned up to go through it really quick. There's a Charlie pointed out Floating Points. You guys sharing it won't be floating point secret sharing. It's going to be integers. He pointed out, you know, sanitation will probably require interaction between the helpers in some way, but we'd probably do that as like a different function.

And then there's an interesting comment on range restriction on conversion data to do things like pass back purchase IDs or something like this, and I think those actually belong is sort of like sending additional keys information back.

This is mostly with the aggregation piece, but sort of not, not as a value, but as a key in a sense. And we, you know, we couldn't usually send that, but I just prefer it in a different location. Was the only response, so I think those were all the.

The issues related to like right now though.

Joel - There were, there was some discussion about which is actually cheaper. They more want to directly compare. This came up yesterday as well, and the main thing I think that adds people like is the flexibility. From the bucketing standpoint, that allows us to do a lot more. Or introducing of new and retiring of old types of futures doing different group by order ideations you know, not organizations. That's not a word, but different orders for your group buys. You're not constrained to this fixed hierarchical view.

So that's a very large gain the the one contrast people might point out is the complexity of inserting these records again.

So that's one thing we'd have to keep the bits a little bit lower than we might want in certain cases, but I think on our side at least, we've ran some basic numbers, and I think it would have. It would allow a lot of flexibility and, and we could make it work so.

**Mehul**

Uhm, I see on that issue. Andrew had some comments and questions. Andrew, does it answer your question- or do you have anything to add?

**Andrew Pascoe**

no I don't have anything to add.

**Mehul**

So then I think we are through the first three issues really quick. 

Are there any other things people want to bring up? So today we kind of primarily focus on the model training and then reporting aspect of it so that, like kind of we complete the whole round of the discussion, but feel free to bring up any of the integration questions you might have about the API question.

OK, then I think then we are going to give significant time back if people have no questions for now.

Content to be absorbed there with a few markdowns.

-thank you everyone.

**Kelda**

Please keep adding feedback and comments. We really appreciate the discussion today!
