


# PARAKEET Discussion


#### Wednesday, June 29th at 5 pm CET / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT


## Agenda


* [PARAKEET with Noisy Ranking status update](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/NoisyRanking.md)
* Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)
    * [Issue #47 Advertiser isolation](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/47)



### Notes:

Status update:

**Erik Anderson:**

We're still making progress on building out the trusted mediator. So I think we'll try to share more details overtime on that.

We're also always looking at GitHub so if folks have things they want to get clarifications on. Please file issues there. [Issues · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)

But beyond that, I don't have anything too specific. So I'll hand it off to the native ad's discussion.

Native Rendering in Fenced frames:

**John Mooring**: 

Small mock up that reviews fenced frames Fenced frames prevent the content from learning the embedding site, so even if you you had some rules mapping the publisher domain to how you should style the content, you still won't be able to access the publisher domain. The best you could do is include a variety of native ads in an interest group, each tuned for different publisher domains...That's obviously not ideal, So what follows is a few ideas for how we could enable native advertising within fenced frames.

On the seller side- it is run at auction and could accept a template URL which contains a HTML describing how to assemble a native ad into HTML. You can see there's a tentative new API added there that's analogous to the add components API. This allows you to access the native assets of the winning flagged parakeet ad.

And I think that's fairly self explanatory.

On the buyer side, this is tentative, but a buyer could include-instead of the render URL or in addition to the render URL, a native URL which points to a JSON object describing the ad to be displayed.

If the seller does specify that this is a native placement the buyers could respond or select a native ad which would be scored by the seller if that native ad wins, then the seller would go ahead and render that native ad within.

There are some privacy concerns right off the gate.

Let's talk about the first one

1. decorating links with user information:

If I am the publisher, I could go ahead and take that native assets, ad URL, click URL and decorate it with a user ID. That way the landing page learns that this particular user is coming from a known publisher. It's a way to join your ID with their ID on the publisher's site.

Now the fenced frame has an additional responsibility here. If there is a click or navigation inside this fenced frame that is not to a click URL that was pre-specified by the buyer, then that click is blocked. That navigation is blocked.

2.  publisher-specific click URL threat:

We see that click URLs is an array. So for example if a native ad wanted to include a privacy URL, it might specify more than one click URL.

There's still an attack here. A buyer could include a publisher-specific click URL, so this is an important call out, it may be necessary to call it click URL instead of click URLs restrict the number of click URLs of by our can specify to only a single URL.

 That's probably fine, but it's still something we'd like feedback on this.

3. creepy advertisements:

Something mentioned in Turtledove GitHub issues is creepy advertisements personalizing ads with user-specific information. So for instance, if the publisher can use a unique template URL for every user that visits the site, they could personalize that ad, and come up with something like hey user, we see you're interested in this content.

Even though they don't learn that the user is interested in that content, there's still the appearance that they've learned the user's cross-site interest.

I think several open questions are at the core of the proposal. The first one is display, and native exclusivity is their value in allowing a seller to choose whether a particular placement is eligible to be a native placement or a display placement.

If we decide that they are in fact exclusive a, publisher or seller could just specify the template URL, which would mean that only native capable ads are eligible to participate in the auction.

And the other question there is, would we want an individual ad to be eligible for both native and display slots? I think that ties in a bit to how we would want to actually represent nontextual assets inside a native ad.

Seller validation of native ads: This could be done just through the creative scoring service, but considering that the size of the native assets blob would be much smaller than render URL bundle, I think that's pretty likely it might be possible to expose those in need of assets directly to score ad, as long as they're fetched before the ad actually wins the auction.

Finally, this would be composed of ad components, product level, and turtledove. I think they're proposal actually touches on native advertising a little bit, so I'd be interested to hear any other proposals in this space that might have been touched on in the past.

**Michael Kleber:**

To engage with the core privacy question that you're considering a change to. So to be clear about the privacy model that we proposed originally for fenced frames, the idea of fenced frames on the fledge rendering side is that contents of a fetched frame only knows about information from a single site, right? .. information that came with the interest group or came with the ad that's being rendered, which means has some unbounded amount of information coming from like the site where the user was added to the interest group ... basically there's a huge flow of information there.

The core protection that we're putting on fenced frames is that there's not a huge flow of information from the publisher page into the fenced frame. So everything about the way fenced frames are described and built... they have information primarily from a single site and only a little bit of information from another site.

Then we don't have to worry about a huge leakage of information from inside a fence frame, like on a single click, for example, because they can't immediately give away across that identity join. They don't have a cross-site identity join inside the frame. And this seems to take a different approach, right? 

This is a fundamentally different idea: let's allow information from the two different sites to flow into the fence frame so that the rendering can be affected by both of them. Instead, the Privacy Guard is on information flowing out of the fenced frame afterward.

**John:**  

Exactly right, yes

**Michael:**

 in fenced framed you would only be able to render web bundles and this would be a heavy lift from how ads are rendered today 

First, Fenced Frames as available now in the origin trial in chrome: Info can’t flow back & forth between FF and the surrounding page, but each independently can load information from the network.  This certainly couldn't be allowed if information from both the publisher page and the IG flowed into the FF — ads would need to render without any network access.

**John:**

Right,  this proposal does presuppose that restrictions are enforced within fenced frames. For instance, you'll see in this native component the image URL is represented in base 64, but could be a potentially fetched from a web bundle subcomponent in the future.

**Michael:**

 Aside from rendering with no network, as you mentioned, you have to declare all the click URLs in advance.  That seems to not work well with a variety of things that seem to show up inside of AD click URLs almost universally.. things like when you click on an ad URL that actually represents the click includes dynamically added information like the X&Y coordinates of where the mouse was at the time the click happened in pixels, or the number of milliseconds from when the ad was rendered to when the ad was clicked. Those turn out to be signals that seem to be included on AD click URLs very widely, and they seem to be pretty important.

Especially in the fraud prevention space, where people click is not where bots click.

 

**John:**

That's an interesting point

What comes to mind is the ability to specify some low entropy macros in this click URL, but I would also hope that there could be greater reliance on the event reporting mechanisms inside, or rather the fenced frames event reporting mechanisms. That the report is sent to buyers and sellers.

**Michael:**

I agree this was sort of the rock and the hard place that we were caught between. I think that looking at templating values into the possible click URLs works at the same time. You can easily imagine if click X and click Y are values that you're allowed to template you could easily imagine where the button is to go to the advertiser site is different on every publisher page. So that actually is a substantial information channel to get user information from the publisher to do information joining.

**John:**

Another potential attack we discussed internally was the possibility that while an ad could render on multiple different publishers, this ad may only be clickable on a single publisher.

Making the whole frame a single clickable element is another idea that has been discussed here.

Again, when we look at existing native advertising solutions, that's frequently how the ad is arranged. It's dynamically assembled, but a single clickable element.

**Michael:**

We definitely did consider for fence frames,  gating the information flowing in or gating the information flowing out. These are the collection of reasons why we decided that gating information flowing in was the only one that seemed particularly valuable to us. And there are a lot of hard problems that you encounter with other parts of support for the ads ecosystem if you try to get the information flowing out.

**John:**

Wondering about the viability of an additional fenced frames mode. If display ads wind up using the ads only mode. Is there a separate native ads mode that would make sense for fence frames that have these additional output gates?

**Brian May:**

My response is somewhat of a variation of Michael's.

I assume the score ads function will determine whether the ad is suitable for a given native placement, but I'm questioning how successful that will be. When you're talking about something like a native ad placement, the impact of a poorly rendered native ad is much more significant than that of a poorly rendered banner ad, which the publishers can easily suggest is not part of my page and it's the advertiser's fault, not mine.

So it seems like there's a need for some communications back to the publishers about what's going on with the native ad rendering, so that the publishers can maintain page quality.

**John:**

I see the comment that score AD would be unable to validate the native ad if it has access to the native components at the time of scoring the ad.

 
**Brian:**

 I'm more concerned about is scoring sufficiently validating so the publishers page quality doesn't suffer from poorly rendered native ads?

**John:**

It's definitely something to think about. Do you have a specific area where a combination of trusted scoring signals and native assets available in the score add function would be less efficient than validation? That's feasible in just display ads?

**Brian:**

When I think about the combination of possible dependencies between a native ad and the surrounding context, and the number of dependencies between a display ad in surrounding contexts. It seems that the native ad would have a high, much higher dependency on knowing where it's going than the display ad, and that means much greater potential for displaying  incorrectly.

 **Erik:**

We're aware of lots of potential side-channel leakages, 

We've seen lots of interesting approaches to try to mask things from the web page, but still allow some form of styling. I think we're just describing something that's much more challenging than hiding if a link is purple or not.

I think we can go back  and make sure we're really articulating where and why we have mitigations and why we think it's safe, or if we come to a different conclusion... that's fine too.

I think what John was kinda indicating is, we'd have to gate the link URL to be non-dynamic. Otherwise we probably don't have any shot at all of making it safe. So thanks.

**Bartosz Marcinkowsk:** \
I think it's a good reason to have a single URL per product mentioned in size single ad.

**John:**

You could just still have access to ad components within this native ad. So if a native ad did mention it had multiple component assets that should be rendered, then they could potentially just be rendered inside fence frames.

 Even without uh publisher styling information, if they are just product images, it might not be too much of an issue to have those still rendered within traditional fence frames inside this native fence frame.

**Bartosz:**

Ok Thanks

**Brian May**

There is a issue on the turtle dove proposal we will be submitting a pull request after this 

**David Dabbs**:

 Are  there affordances for sellers to do a preflight review. It's always been a burden depending on the intermediary that we're working with to provide them, the ability to pre flight review the creatives that are running on our DSP. But it's very important for the sellers to be able to say I don't want  this domain. .. it could be creative quality, it could be channel conflicts.

John

**John:** 
In both fledge and parakeet, there is this trusted scoring service that's made available to seller worklets, and we imagine with native ads, the flow could be very similar.

You'd still have access to a seller trusted signals about this ad. Hopefully in addition to those native assets made directly available to scored.

The ads privacy repo may have touched on this potential flow, but it's not something that's baked into this proposal or I think a fledge. But Michael, you might be able to touch on that question better than I can.

That covers it 

**David:**
great thanks

**John:**

If there are not any more questions we can give people back  some time.

 
