# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, December 12th  at 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT   
Scribe: Pooja Tetali


Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.


If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG: ](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)
## Agenda
- [Tal Bar Zvi] [Ad coordination (including exclusion) - part of native advertising - continued](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/69) 
- Sign up for the developer preview of the ad-selection api [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/web-platform/ad-selection-api) 

## Attendees (sign in here) 
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)   
Tal Bar Zvi (Taboola)   
Fabian Höring (Criteo)   
David Dabbs (Epsilon)   
Isaac Foster (Microsoft)    
Pooja Tetali (Microsoft)    
Paul Jensen (Google)    

## Notes:
See  [Issue- #199](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1199)   

TZ: Raise the next challenge- diversity of Ad Selection. I would like to give 5 points and the rationale behind it. We want to be able to coordinate the selection of the ads in various areas of the page. In the native world we have several ads and not single placement, we can have a large number of items displayed on the page, so the complexity rises. Usually the publisher requests us as a supplier to figure out how to coordinate placement on the page. Don’t want to show the same ad or ads with the same text on the same page. We can repeat the same rationale with vertical ads. We want to maintain content diversity. There are zones, we want to have stipulations with zones (ads are in far away zones, allow duplication) ads in same/or close zones (don’t allow duplication) Some publishers prefer exclusion of certain keywords, some advertisers do not want to appear on a page with certain text(competitors) 

IF: Am I right in understanding, most of the features are driven by publisher desires to coordinate ad slots across the page? 

TZ: Usually the publisher gives us rules and we respect that as a partner. 

IF: Page caps (is the term MSFT use), Competitive exclusion, content based. Are you also referring to 2 competitive brands that don't appear next to each other but coordination between the texts of the ad itself? 

TZ: No, but its a nice feature 

IF: That would be the closest equivalent. You are raising this in the context of native advertising, but is it fair to say that content mapping etc are not limited to native advertising? 

TZ: In the native world, we do exchanges- read the whole site and suggest relevant articles to keep users engaged. In the native world, we are dealing with more items and recommendations. 

IF: “Remember what I serve/didn’t serve” is that in a single load or multiple page loads? 

TZ: Same page view. 

IF: In that page view concept- are you referring to the entire time that page is loaded or one round of ad display? Someone hits url, ads populated, constraints applied,  2 sec later ads refresh? 

TZ: I don’t know if we keep the info between sessions. Its both time and user based. We do have the notion of time, which survives page refresh. 

IF: For the session, it would be interesting to dig in the session concept. For the pageview we have stuff to talk about. 

PJ: How do you connect all these requests together? Are you taking multiple requests and figuring out they are from the same pageview? 

TZ: Includes heuristics. We generate an id, next request we get the same id. But if the browser is closed/reopened we generate new id, but we use an identifier on the browser (webstorage) and we see its from the same publisher. Based on web storage, session storage, and session. 

PJ: Do you have code running on the publisher page? So you are doing your own coordination between slots. 

TZ: Yes

IF: It sounds like you are making independent requests, so some thing in the back end is coordinating these requests. 

TZ: Yes both client/server sides. Hard thing is that you can’t tell its a page view. 

FH: What is the main feature according to you, that would solve these issues? It looks like its this issue. 

PJ: What % of ADSAPI is used for the whole page vs slot? 

TZ: Page load, return fetch of recommendations, fetch complies to the constraints (mid, low, top placement) and the user starts scrolling. Complies with all of the rules. User starts scrolling (infinite scroll) I need to look up this session in cache in server, and check that new batch complies with constraints. Does that answer your question? 

IF: Is the amount of info you need to make this decision small enough to pass in during the second request? Just normal ad tech flow. Is there a reason you can’t do that? If we fast forward to an ADSAPI/ PA solution- am asking to simplify the analysis- what is stopping you in a normal page from storing that state ins session storage from the first auction to the second auction? 

TZ: We implemented that from server side because the rule might change, to be agile. 

IF: Within a page view session, is  it generally a short period of time? 

TZ: Yes. I want to return to what Fabian said that 199 said. I am not sure if everyone is aware of what this is. 

FH: Referring to this ticket because it is public documentation. You expressed your constraints but according to you what is the solution? 

IF: Is this similar to the ticket discussing multitag and competitive exclusion page blocks? Are those related? 
FH: Looks related across SSP. There can be many many ad slots across the page. 

IF: Tal, The exclusions you are talking about- do you guys offer those guarantees only when you are the final decider on the page? Your tech, you control auction results. 

TZ: We try to because we are the ones that render the actual markup. We get the item from RGB or programmatic. I am not sure we look at images. We do what we can do. Technology advanced recently so maybe we can do images, but we do it on text for sure. 

IF: Maybe I’ll start talking about what we do have and we can ideate from there. 

BM: To Fabians point, we have constraints and requirements. Tal, do you have proposed solutions? 

TZ: Our team thought of: returning multiple items from an auction, apart from that I am not sure- Fabian is saying in  [Issue- #199](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1199) there is a solution- I am not up to date with that. 

IF: Our initial release may not have this, but it is in our docs: The ability to multi tag protected auctions, and coordinate across multiple slots. Lets discuss a single request- the way that the sell side would work- you receive the bids for your slots and you are able to coordinate that in the functions with code. When you get scoring signals back you get the brand, audit status and coordinate for that single request: top banner is coke, left bid is pepsi so I can’t take pepsi bid (competitive exclusions), page caps, roadblocks (that part isn’t well thought through) Within a single request that is envisioned, documented, not implemented? Across requests we would need to discuss some stuff. Initial direction I am thinking of, something that is passed from first request through second request but we would have to think of privacy implications of this. BM does that raise any flags? 

For a single request this is one of the planned features, across requests we would need to plan it out a bit more? 

TZ: If we do it sequentially it would hurt page performance. You can return multiple bids and then we need to rank them using the contextual items already presented. Then another auction? How many auctions can we do on the page? 

IF: Single request doesn’t mean single ad. Today if you are on a publisher page, allow a single http request to get ads from multiple slots on a page. Oftentimes, those slots are being satisfied by a single auction or decision point across those slots. HTTP request, SSP gets bids, decides on what to show, decides on a process, and sends that back to a client. This is supported today in an ADSAPI auction, not in an PA auction. 

Now that I got that, I want to refresh the ads, infinite scroll and relate back to a previous request. (We don’t have this) 

Tal: I was trying to include the PA runauction(). How many runauction() calls on a page? 

IF: It would be 1 call to runAuction() to satisfy the same slots. Step 2, Infinite scroll, more ads need to show up. And you still want to apply competitive exclusions. We do not currently have support for this. BM, that info is almost contextual at that point (except its derived from previous auction with user data) Maybe we can allow some encrypted thing that can be passed from first auction to second auction using ID (server side or client side)? 

BM: Having a concrete stake in the ground would be useful from a privacy perspective.  [Issue- #199](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1199) has useful info for previous wins to reduce duplication. 

FH: Could work on buyer side? We also investigated adding this to the seller, but then you give info to the seller. Last solution on [Issue- #199](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1199): We have set of rules and say: name and if the ad has the same name, I don’t want to have more than 2x ads with the same name and browser takes them out. For native its standardized to the product name, so you can say I don’t want to have 2 ads of the same ad type, 3 or 4 browsers takes them out. Some sequential/parallel work, you prevent duplication. 

IF: BM, could we put this down on paper? Can we put this into scoreAds()? Previous wins are already buyer side. This isn’t an entirely new concept. What if the browser could pass a second blob encrypted into the auction call that would contain render urls that won the previous calls. scoreAd() compares signals from previous wins- which would match the functionality but not privacy. 

TZ: We tried to use previous things. We manage http requests in parallel. When we implemented PA we implemented multiple auctions but it wasn’t useful. 

IF: The challenge was because of the single tag nature of auctions. If an ADSAPI auction call and apply coordination across a single ad auction call and also get winning render urls in a second call from ad auction. Would that get you what you need? 

TZ: Not sure because we are doing it in parallel so the server must be aware of whats winning/displayed. FH You mentioned previousWin didnt work for you? 

FH: Didn’t try it. You cannot use this info because in previous wins you don’t have the publisher page, so you cannot know which page could display the ad. What MK said: The discussed alternative solution of leveraging aggregated prevWins and propagating this from the buyer to the seller via metadata could be explored. It would allow to see what is missing there. Likely today, prevWins are updated too late during rendering nav start as per @MattMenke2 comment above. Also, today prevWins do not include on which publisher page the ad has been displayed.

IF: We are open to any solution, some of the core differences between ADSAPI and PA can allow us to solve this in a pure way. I think its valuable to explore what we can do there. Worth exploring a functional sell side. 
BM: About prevWins() it doesn’t get counted until it comes to a frame. Would that be a useful change? 

FH: Don’t change it because it is useful for billing. 

IF: PrevWins() is designed for buy side use cases (capping and billing) the way it would work today is different, decoupling the two seems clearer. Browser signals are passed through bidding functions. The border between key value server and bidding function is less fuzzy. But, I didn’t mean to shut it down. In our model it shouldn’t be an issue. Us putting together some thoughts on this to talk about next time would be good. 

BM: Next steps, look at info from this meeting, Tal it would be great to look at [Issue- #199](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1199). Our next meeting is the second Thursday of January. 


