# Ad Selection API Discussion 
Thursday, May 16th at 9 am CET / 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT 
Scribe: Erik 


Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG:](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

## Agenda
Differences between Protected Audiences and Ad-selection API: Interest groups and cross-site contamination

If you want to discuss a topic in the next meeting please submit a Github issue [here](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/new)!

## Attendees (sign yourself in):
Brian May (Dstillery)  
Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)  
Konstantin Stepanov (MSFT Ads)  
Matthew Atkinson (Samsung)  
Pooja Tetali (Microsoft)   
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)  
Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)  
Fabian Höring (Criteo)  
Paul Jensen (Privacy Sandbox)  
Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)  
Laura Morinigo (Samsung)  

## Minutes:
Isaac: If folks have thoughts on selection, we’re okay to hear that, but not sure we’re ready quite yet. Not an Ad Selection API-specific thing, but we had talked about the idea of being able to do “patchy” updates. On the dynamic vs. static selection, we are specifically interested in folks’ thoughts coming in on GitHub or in a future session.

Michael Kleber: Last time, we talked a bit about a bunch of the differences between the two APIs. Comes down to the fact that PA IGs only carry one domain’s worth of info, difference vs AS. Don’t think we talked about dynamic creative selection in that context, but I think it’s another example of a difference that has to do with, “can you have ad data across multiple domains?” If you can dynamically add a new creative to the set of IGs it’s carrying around with it on site A, then that candidate render URL (ad) reflects info about the site where it was joined and a previous site A where it participated in an auction. If it carries that creative around with it and is available on another site B, then the IG is going to accrue info over time potentially about all of the different sites it participated in an auction on. I might be wrong and don’t understand the mechanism for how dynamic URLs get creatives. In general when we talk about differences, good to understand which are due to single site nature vs. other things.

Isaac: Elements we’ll want to button up before we comment more publicly. But to understand what you’re saying… what are you thinking if we hypothetically say one IG per bidding function, you can call out to your KV server as we’ve currently described but then you can return a URL that is determined to be k-anonymous. The specific issue where you’d get cross-site contamination is what?

Kleber: I thought, for some reason, you had a proposal in which, at that point if a new creative entered the room as part of an auction, then that creative would get stored in the IG and get carried around and be available in future auctions. In that context, creative is an opportunity to carry info around multiple sites. If you’re saying the URL is ephemeral and doesn’t stick around on the IG, then my comment was off.

Isaac: I think your confusion is warranted as we’ve talked about it in the past few weeks. We documented it less well than we thought we did which is on us. I think before we commit to anything we need to button things up internally. You are certainly correct in an Ad Selection API model, we allow multiple IGs, URLs can contain info from the two things. Hadn’t originally documented that that would become part of the IG’s data on disk with the browser, not intended. But need to document better.

Yanush: We don’t update the IG with render URLs like that.

Brian: My understanding is you want a bag/collection of ads (potentials), a group of IGs, select one of the ads to be selected for a given auction. Rather than tying to a specific IG? Is that more or less accurate?  

Isaac: Yes, decouple ad from the IG. 

Brian: Issue is we want to make sure the ad selected is not based on info that, if I see the ad, I know this IG is behind it and therefore I know this is the site the user was on previously.

Isaac: Still trying to stay within the boundary of preventing reidentification across boundaries.

Brian: Could use other tricks like noise, fuzzing of the decisioning. Maybe the ad you saw came from a specific IG and maybe it was a randomly selected ad.

Kleber: In general the stuff we’ve done with noise to handle privacy requirements in a lot of APIs, Privacy Sandbox in general and in PAA in specific, works better in the context of aggregation than in the context of one specific individual. In the cases where there’s noise attached to an individual event that you know which person the event is about, you need a relatively large amount of noise to get a good privacy outcome.  With aggregation we can make due with much less noise. I feel like in the choosing-an-ad phase of auctions, we have gotten feedback in the past that adding substantial noise to ad selection process so people end up not picking the ad they wanted to show or the wrong people end up seeing the ad has often seemed extremely difficult or not even viable from the feedback we’ve gotten.

Brian: To first point, I was thinking of event level ARA reporting as the analogue for this sort of mechanism here. I agree with you that advertisers are not happy to hear 5% of spend is being wasted on random ads (or whatever the percentage of noise is).

Kleber: In ARA event-level reports, we add noise but also we severely limit the number of bits of info you might get. Noise on top of only 3 bits of signal (or something like that). If you have a lot of signal, lots of ads to choose from, you need a lot of noise to avoid the leaking through that you’re talking about as a privacy mechanism here.

Isaac: Which exact problem were you hoping to solve with creative noising, Brian? 

Brian: The problem as I understand the thread is that you’ll be able to use the selection of the creative to signal to someone outside the primary relationship of advertiser where IG got set and which publisher site it was on when the user was added to the IG, therefore giving a 3rd party access to that info. If I only set IGs for cars on roadandtraffic and only show ads to people that have been to roadandtraffic that lets others see that signal, this is what lets all of the parties see that I have been there.

Isaac: To Michael’s point, we’ve taken a slightly different position on things. We’ve talked about doing things like increasing k.

Brian: What if we play with time, “these are the ads we’ll show to the user” but wait until some future interaction.

Michael: Lots of previous discussion in PAA [issue](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/729)  about this.

Isaac: Speaking for myself, I like the idea of being able to store ads for later usage on the browser. Interesting possibility.

Brian: I was briefly involved in a mobile platform where it was common practice to cache some number of ads at the point they could acquire the ads (had connectivity). Often used as a means of multiplying the value of an interaction without showing multiple ads to users.

Isaac: Not fundamentally different than display pods. Makes some on-device scenarios more interesting.

Kleber: Taking a step back on differences in two APIs in terms of how things are implemented (which we’ll get to eventually), I want to point out that there are differences we’re talking about here at the level of, suppose the browser wants to help the user answer “why am I seeing this ad?” To what extent are we designing an API that allows a browser to do that. How the browser does that is a UI question, UI isn’t standardized across browsers, lots of UX designers involved. But question is, “does the API design give the browser enough info to say something useful and true about why they saw an ad?” In the model where you can use information across lots of different sites you’ve been on and you can bring additional ads to the table at auction time that weren’t preregistered. In the model more similar to today. Browser doesn’t really have anything to grab onto– you saw this ad because of everything you’ve ever done online. In Protected Audience model, the goal we’re aiming towards, the “only one other site” justification is that it goes with an answer to the question: you’re seeing this ad because you were on Nike.com last Thursday. Other factors like why this ad vs. others stored, there’s auction dynamics that have to do with the site you’re on. But there is an event when the IG was added to your browser that provides a meaningful answer. Render URL only provides two pieces of info: the ad you’re seeing and the site the IG was added on. Ad reuse scenario could be in line with that goal (“you were online on nike last week”) if you’re on the same site as where it was added. Go to nike, add IG, then go to NYT and see a nike ad. If that ad shows on NYT, we’re in a more PAA-like scenario where you only learn info about two sites. But if you see it on CNN.com, the answer might be “you were on nike.com last week, and cnn.com two days ago, and so on” which gets into the “it’s based on everything you’ve done before.”

Isaac: Ad Selection API and PAA have different answers about “why this ad?” which is inherent to the underlying things. I had thought about the differences being because of the IG difference, but is it also due to the render URL difference? If Ad Selection API was single IG but still had dynamic render URL selection. Still means it’s because you were on nike.com.

Kleber: You’re totally right. I think a dynamic choice of ad URL but still based on only two sites’ info– site you’re on now and site you were added to the IG– is a more viable thing. Can do that without bringing in info from many different sites. The privacy properties are trickier to deal with because in some sense, at rendering time, as an ad is being rendered, the rendering frame in the PAA model only has one site worth of data: a URL chosen based on a single site’s worth of data. In dynamically selected URL case, it has two site’s worth of data, much more leakage risk. Privacy point of view it’s trickier. But philosophically I agree you could have dynamic ad URL selection and only two sites’ worth of data at a time.

Brian: When you pose question about explainability to the user, I’m not sure if when I put myself in the position of a user that “I joined this IG when I was on nike.com” that it told me anything. Nike could know a ton of things about me and use that to add IG.

Kleber: Yes, you’re right. “You saw this ad because you were on nike.com” is a difference. Does that difference actually matter from a practical point of view? Do privacy advocates think it makes a difference to them? We don’t know the answer yet. How the world reacts to the differences in the two different APIs may be a useful signal for all of us to nail down which properties are beneficial and useful. Makes the conversation about the answer much more pragmatic than abstract.

Brian: Can you clarify the Chrome perspective here? There’s a level here of tractability you want to provide to users about what they’re seeing in their browser?

Kleber: I think Chrome perspective is, in our initial implementation and initial launch of Protected Audience was relatively conservative from a privacy properties point of view. What was most likely to gain acceptance. I don’t think that loosening the restrictions we have in the ways we discuss here are necessarily ruled out. The whole point of standardization process is different people make different choices and then we eventually converge on something. Don’t have a hard and fast line beyond “can’t reidentify the user across sites.”

Brian: The “can know why you’re seeing something” thing though?

Kleber: The explainability bit seems desirable, but there are lots of things that are desirable!  No forward looking statement re: how things get balanced against each other as things evolve.

Brian: Maybe attributes associated with ads and sites and when attributes overlap sufficiently it’s enough to show this ad for this IG. Not a specific IG for the user, not because of nike.com, but because you were in “shoe lovers” IG. Shoe ad makes sense in the context of the two things.

Paul: That implies constraints on IGs that don’t exist in practice. It may not be “shoe lovers”, could be anything. Adds complexity.

Brian: If we want flexibility to show arbitrary ads to users, this could allow correlating ads with placement group to allow us to, at the cost of needing to be more specific about what my IG is for, could show my ad for any user that relates to that IG.

Isaac: Before we get into any interesting semantics on IG, can you repeat the object structure you were roughly talking about?

Brian: Three sources of info: the ad, the site it’s being shown on, and the IG being used to tie those two together.

Isaac: From an object oriented coding perspective I see the IG as unifying. But you were saying there was something you’d add to the creative and maybe the site the IG was dropped would allow you to express better semantically, “why this ad?”

Brian: No. Attribute on the creative, “ad for runner,” attribute on IG that says “this is for runners” and attribute on site that says “this site is oriented toward runners.”

Paul: Not sure DSPs would use it like this, and might not be able to fit an attribute to it.

Brian: You’re getting it, I want the ad contextual to the site I’m on and want to inform the IG about what type of site I’m on.

Kleber: Brian, that makes me nervous in a variety of ways. It, of course, is the browser being opinionated about how the API could be used which is new and different than what we’ve talked about before. Not sure how ads ecosystem would react to such a chain of connections. Separately from that, from point of view of what the browser can tell the user: info that is volunteered by the ad tech but with no way for the browser to know if it’s true or not is on much shakier grounds than info the browser observed directly and is confident of. “The site you were added to an IG on” the browser knows for sure. The statement “this IG is related to things about shoes” is maybe true, or maybe “shoes” is ad industry code name for something else and it’s a euphemism and you’re talking about something else entirely; browser telling the user it’s about shoes may make the browser look incorrect.

Brian: Modifying it a bit, IG isn’t telling you it’s for people that like shoes. It says I want to show an IG related to shoes or running. When you show ads about the IG it’s on sites about running.

Paul: But there’s competitive exclusion where people typically don’t want to do that sort of thing.

Isaac: Creative has a category target, site has a category target, and there could be some up front matching done for you. My version of what Michael is saying is, anything that’s semantic about the site, IG, ad will be tough to enforce. If we require some sort of semantic restriction or something like that, it (a) may not be effective and (b) poses a cost on how the API should be used. I think a lot of ad techs today are using the IG as a means of activating an ID in an auction rather than a semantic itself (even if ID is in an opaque process). I like the idea of additional targeting, and if we can do something semantic I like it but could be challenging.

Brian: People that want more opportunity to do things about creatives could make affordances so that they could target those creatives based on contextually appropriate placement. People who don’t want that restriction wouldn’t have to participate in the dynamic aspect. If you need contextual signal, probably have less opportunities to show an ad but may be able to show a better ad. In respect to the concern about what happened when, don’t we already do that?

Kleber: To be clear, the advertising industry is welcome to do the kinds of things Brian is talking about to make IGs reflect some interests, putting ads in the IG reflecting those interest, showing ads on sites that are about that interest– that’s all fine and possible in the PAA world already. Have an IG about running, add people to IG on sites about running, add ads about running to the IG, and bid on sites about running. The general flow of bidding and matching is just fine and already supported. But I don’t think it’s in the category where the browser can understand what’s going on and represent something to the user. Really all in the hands of ad tech. Maybe ad tech has interest in being able to tell the user (ad tech info bubbles could be better). But the ones from ad tech today are often more like, “it’s because of things you’ve done in the past” which is not as clear as what PAA can make possible with the “you were on nike.com last Thursday.”

Paul Farrow: When we talked about this before, this was one of the more compelling aspects to me. We hadn’t thought about it as much. Increased transparency, choice, and control is a good thing. What this design does is make it very simple for the browser to achieve that. I don’t think adding more IGs to the equation will give you more clarity about what you’ve seen and that’s the primary difference we’re talking about between PAA and Ad Selection API. The tradeoff we’ve made is a little bit on the other side– we do want to address the transparency problem and browser APIs give you more controls and after seeing past ad industry efforts in the real world, but we’ve made a different bet that we can get to a better place with transparency and control without the same tradeoffs as PAA.

Brian: I’ve fiddled around with the question of transparency a lot. It always confounds me that I’m transparent to you but the next person down the line is not. What does the user do about that? When the idea is giving the user control, and I as DSP 1 say “fine you don’t like this retargeting from this site” and DSP 2 says “this is a great opportunity to retarget you from that site.” The user says “why do I keep seeing this ad I asked to not see?”

Paul: I see this as an opportunity to set up those constraints in a way that you can do better than with OpenRTB.

Brian: But I might shut down all running shoes from protected audiences, but I will get a bunch of contextual ads anyway. What was the point for me as a user?

Paul: Fair. These systems need to be efficient enough to route all of the traffic through that way.

Kleber: Restricting cross-site data flow is possible, but restricting contextual info would be much harder and much more fraught. The possibility of interest group ad selection being able to be more than just one site’s worth of info is not something Chrome is dead set in the long term or completely out of bounds; not the way PAA works right now and that’s a cost/benefit analysis tradeoff. Maybe in the future the evidence will be that the cost and benefits will balance one another out in a way and it will be okay. Not a “can you reidentify people” question– we know the answer there, but can you use more info to show ads, maybe you’ll be able to. Chrome position is different than Edge position right now, but who knows in the future.

Brian: Can you clarify– is an IG tied to a specific web site? Or can I have IG123 on nike.com, adidas.com, and running.com?

Kleber: In PAA you can have same IG123 that you add the user to on all of those different sites That’s just fine. But the IG in my own personal browser is only carrying around info from whichever site I was added to the IG from most recently. If added to IG on nike.com and later added on adidas.com, the adidas version will overwrite the nike version. When an IG participates in an auction it carries only one site’s worth of data.

Isaac: We’re the same as well. That’s why there’s the nuance about patchy updates from the same origin. If you could do it from cross-origin you could do potentially harmful things.

Brian: If I do an update in KV store, it’s for the IG as it was from a specific onboarding site?

Isaac: Do you mean the update URL?

Brian: An IG gets defined with a specific set of attributes, and can be updated in KV store over time. And the updated attributes…

Kleber: there are two different times at which browser talks to IG owner. Daily update which ends up providing new info that gets stored in IG and carried around. And KV lookup that happens in the moment of auction but does not end up storing anything on disk. Both of those actually have the restriction you’re talking about; values from KV server are based on keys put in IG that were put in when you were only on one site. And daily update is based only on daily update URL that came from when you were on a particular site. In both cases the info available to IG at bidding time and can accrete in the IG over time can be only based on a single site’s worth of info.

Brian: That’s different than I understood. I thought I could do IGs across sites…

Kleber: If you want to update everyone in the IG, you can update it for everyone. New creative for everyone that likes running. Or some new ad campaign, put that in the IG. No matter what site they joined on, that’s fine.

Brian: I can make my IGs look the same across sites no matter where they were registered on.

Kleber: Sure, you don’t need to keep track of the site it was added on.

Brian: I can only tell you you were on an IG on one of the sites.

Isaac: The browser does know under the hood where the IG was joined. Michael was getting at this before, there is roughly one thing the browser can say for sure (for Chrome)-- you are seeing this ad because you were in this thing that was joined on this site at this time. To your point, maybe there was an update, but fundamentally because you were on that site that the IG was joined on.







