# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, May 2nd at 9 am CET / 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT  
Scribe: Pooja 

Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/

## Agenda
1) Support for multi-slot auctions
2) Discussion on interest group updates 

## Attendees (sign yourself in):
Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)  
Pooja Tetali (Microsoft Edge)   
Brian May (Dstillery)  
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)  
Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)  
Paul Farrow (Microsoft)  
Laurentiu Badea (OpenX)  
Arthur Coleman (IDPrivacy/ThinkMedium)  

## Notes:
GitHub - WICG/privacy-preserving-ads: Privacy-Preserving Ads

## Minutes:
### Support for multi-slot auctions
Michael: Entwined with allowing interest groups to know about stuff a person did across multiple sites per minute. Chrome: If you are bidding on a single ad slot and you only know about 1 site. A page of ad slots you are bidding on at the same time, there are multiple interest groups that lead to this (multiple pools of info) Ad selection proposal makes sense because we use multiple pools of information for one interest group. Chrome: we don’t have a way to do that.   

Laurentiu: Why are you running the same auction across different sites. Wouldn’t this be the same interest groups?   

Michael: Yes, there would be no problem with- Ig 1, generate ads 5 slots. It gets tricky when all interest groups want to bid using info on the page. The ad auction for the last slot, knows what the ad the first 5 slots have. That's when your privacy differs- many sites contribute to the information. Want to hear microsoft pov on multi-slot auction.

Laurentiu: Competitive exclusion or competing ads?   

Issac: I agree with you Micheal about the process piece. In theory, the PA could have multiple bids and things parallel to run an auction. Multi-slot auction is when ad server on page, competitive exclusion, page caps so get multiple pools of info. IF you take position you cannot mix signals then you end up in the situation you are describing.  

Paul: Is that the only area? Because we explored different default signals. If that was the only barrier, could this be overcome in an ideal future?  

Micheal: That is the only barrier. Chrome has a strong stance b/c this isn’t compatible with privacy stance. For whole page auctions- the question is, mixing signals about diff interest groups. This was the only barrier. Could someone who worked on the API describe the mechanism for supporting whole page auctions?   

Issac: So, Micheal- in your auction you can, similar to IAD group, it goes into the auction signal, the bid request has multiple signals… returns multiple bids.   

Micheal: How do you do full page optimizations (competitive exclusions)   

Issac: Then this goes into scoreAds() Render url returned from scoreAds() must be the same one that is used to generate bids. So we can’t modify anything. Render url can get decision signals and make decisions. There are times we can’t apply competitive exclusion perfectly but we can do single page things. Could something be possible with scoreAds()? Any middleground?   

Michael: For competitive exclusion- I thought that advertiser A is unwilling to be on the same page as Advertiser B. This is a choice made by advertisers. The interaction between multiple slots is only enforceable by cells. Should SSPs be the one to enforce this? This surprises me. It was not my impression.   

Brian: There is an issue with communicating with other parties. SSPs to tell DSPs don’t work with x. If there is a relationship between the two, the DSPs can only request this information.   

Micheal: There are diff types of exclusions where a buyer that are like my DSP don’t work with x. We could make this better. This would get us closer to par, there are some edge cases.   

Micheal: I think that scoreAds() is something I have to think about more- if we could allow something like that in protected audiences. I am worried about if we maintain protected audiences in which buyers don’t have the ability to look at info across sites, but change things so sellers could change things. All the buyers would be mad that sellers have capability. Seller/buyer parties have advantage over only buyer parties. I get why scoreAds() picks ads on the page. Not sure about all of the implications but it doesn't seem impossible.   

Issac: No one expects you to think about all of them. 100% correct. The amount of info a seller can extract would be nothing, some offline interesting things, if you limit it to scoring, but you must release something that is single context. Other piece, buyers would appreciate having some of the support so they can use it to move forward.   

Brian: Not sure if the model we are looking at is different than one we have. Sellers take input and make decisions about what is going to show up. Big diff in how signal is communicated and how it is applied instead of happening at SSP level it is happening at browser level.   

Micheal: In PA: buyer get to watch everything on a site, you get to store info in an interest group that represents anything about buyers behavior. We don’t allow building cross-web profiles about user (building store of info about users, feeding to ML model) If you have this generateBids for each slot, and score ads that know about all the bids from all the slots. All of the single interest groups knows everything about what happens on other sites. Each one of those single web interest groups, can submit a bid to giant bid- based on what the user did on site A. Here is what the user is interested in on a scale of 1-100. For every individual topic, there is some interest group that can… info flowing into scoreAds() there are 1000 diff topics that say what topics the user is interested in. Now 1000 dimensional cross site profiles about users. Which one of these ads should we show (that is a function for cross site profile) to users. Not possible in Chrome today, but it does seem possible.  

Brian: In the model you described, is the concern about signals from diff sources, or signal from diff sources being leaked?   

Micheal: Both are concerns. From PA pov- we don’t support building a high dimension cross-site user profile, even though you might not be able to leak info. Is a difference between both APIs. This is why multi-site bidding questions and full-page auction are two different manifestations about the same thing about how bidding can be done.   

Brian: As long as info is going into a black box, with controlled level of radiation, so you don’t know what goes in, mixing signals is ok.   

Michael: Hard question. Answer to this in the privacy sandbox is, when we first started with PA, we felt that only having single site profiling possible (no cross site) seemed most acceptable to privacy-side ppl of the world. Unsure how important mixing signals is. Privacy advocates haven't come to an answer for this. We chose a more conservative approach. Maybe this isn’t a long term solution, once we figure out mixing signals.   

Brian: In many privacy sandbox discussions- blur between user and campaign info. If we are ok with a partition, then there is mixing that can happen that isn’t informed by user. Ex) buyer: my ad cannot be shown on a page where other ads are shown.   

Issac: That philosophical question is one of the really interesting questions that we should continue to iterate and develop more interesting trade offs.   

Micheal: Coke should not be on the same page as Pepsi. No privacy problems with that. We should be able to support this in protected audiences. But the browser doesn't know unless the buyer does right annotations, even without risk of socreAds() having access to the 1000 dimension cross site profile of the user. Protected Audience doesn’t have support for this.   

Paul: What is that long term future you allude to look like? How does that process work?   

Micheal: The fact that Edge is introducing an API that allows cross-site profiles that can be used for bidding will force privacy groups to be clear about how much diff between single/multi-site profiles matters to them. If a regulator like ICO or a privacy advocate like FPF says this is a substantial difference between 2 api’s, cross-site profiling does matter. If nobody says anything then it will be instructive and easier for PA and Ad selection to converge. I am happy that the 2 APIs take different pov’s, because it is a hard thing to get concrete opinions from the abstract. I hope we can get meaningful feedback in future.   

Issac: Agree  

Brian: I agree there is a lot of value to compare the 2 models. The user related signals, when put into context of advertiser/seller signals we end up with a soup, It is hard to decipher if this is a user influenced decision. If there might be exposure of user info, we can add extra signals. Lots of potential for adding a more extensive signal requirement while protecting user privacy.   

David: It will be important for us to explain the intended outcome. If the point we want- changing bid ppl see on screens, but not the process of collecting info and there is a clear attack model to help people see this as a continuation of the bad status quo. We all want the ability to but the best bids on screen, but not out them using RTB. Nodding furiously.   

Paul: There is a balance between waiting for feedback and consciously waiting for cases we need to navigate in diff ways. I think about this daily, how to make the best case for the future of the industry.   

### Discussion on interest group updates
Issac: Interesting issue- someone drops an interest group with update url on site x, that points to update url that gets triggered, gets populated with script + ad. We get close to a 30 day time out, when an update comes from the url- it doesn’t overwrite properties it does not have- this happens on the site? Would it be possible- the browser knows code on page triggers CPL update of when it comes back to the site, could you do that without overwriting the entire interest group?   

Brian: An on page interest group replaces the interest group with a new version. Url update is a partial/incremental update?   

Issac: Yes.   

Micheal: Yes, we are in this state b/c we had less info at update time. There is no longer a k-anon filter on updates, so they shouldn’t have different behavior from each other. I don’t see any problems with Issac’s thought. It is a fine feature request to file a github issue about. I don’t inherently see any problems with this.   

Brian: It would create a new interest group, if it doesn't exist or bump TTL.   

Micheal: They are diff, the question- did I a DSP add this user to this interest group in the last 30 days. But did a user choose to delete interest groups since then, or did the user go to some other page where DSP removed the user from the interest group. There is a difference between bump TTL or add user to an interest group if they are not in it.  

Brian: I can’t request a TTL bump, I can request that an interest group can be created, I don’t know, without cookies, if it has been created.   

Micheal: This is a situation where CHIPS or a 1P cookie means a DSP would be able to tell if the user was previously added to the IG.   

David: Is it to avoid having to render the state of interest group, when it has been maintained in the most recent state in the update group. All the auction history remains. Would it be overriding?   

Brian: I want to maintain my interest groups based on update urls. If I would add browsers, I don't want to disrupt browsers that are already updated. I imagine a model- do all interest group maintenance through a browser, and you would create interest groups through multiple channels, which would be more difficult than through a single channel.   

Paul: We should pick this up at the next meeting!   






