# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, October 17th at 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT   
Scribe: Pooja Tetali 


Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)
## Agenda 
* We recently announced a limited, developer opt-in, preview of the Ad Selection API!
Sign up [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/web-platform/ad-selection-api#attestation-enrollment-and-alpha-sign-up) and check out our [blog post](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2024/10/08/ad-selection-api-limited-preview/)!
* [Differences](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/API%20Differences.md) in k-anonimity between Protected Audience and Ad Selection API.
* Open source requirement

## Attendees
Isaac Foster (MSFT Ads)   
Roni Gordon (Index Exchange)   
David Dabbs (Epsilon)   
Matt Kendall (Index Exchange)   
Fabian Höring (Criteo)   
Franciszek Okrzesik (RTB House)   
Laurentiu Badea (OpenX)   
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)   
Laura Morinigo (Samsung)   
Paul Jensen (Google Privacy Sandbox)   
Michael Kleber (Google Privacy Sandbox)   
Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll) 
Pooja Tetali (Microsoft Edge)   




## Notes:
### Origin Trial related Questions 
Franciszek: How long will it be in developer preview?

Brandon: At least July 2025. We are looking for buyers and sellers to try it out. So atleast until july. Please give us feedback

Franciszek: So you don’t foresee any changes until July?

Brandon: Atleast until July is what we have on. Two halfs: bidding and auction client side in Edge and you need to opt in as a seller to have these work. We expect to ramp up the edge side (bidding and auction side)   

Michael: I have a copy of Edge, but I do not have any interest groups except for sites dropping IGs for PA API. Edge folks: are there suggestions for sites we can visit so we can get interest groups and see auction run?    

Brandon: We are looking for a test cage but we do not have one now. If you have a site you are testing, you can manually override attestation for your client.    

Michael: There would be a message in DevTools?    

Brandon: Yes, there will be a console message that it was rejected.    

David: Michael, the edge isn’t net different on the API in the browser. Roni has documentation.    

Roni: There was a lot of documentation but not javascript that we can execute. Attestation is probably the one preventing it. I would love it if there was documentation for a code that provides a sanity check: the thing that was 
working in Chrome is working on Edge.    

Issac: Seems like a reasonable thing   

Brandon: The demo page is already on our radar.   

David: The demo that Roni + team has is open source    

Brandon: Thank you for the offer. Mostly focused on internal hosting rather than content.     

Issac: Are you suggesting a subsection of that same site?    

Roni: Wherever, it just needs to live somewhere. Scouring the internet for IGs isn’t a good look for devs.    

Issac: If it makes sense to live on a unified site with Privacy Sandbox we can discuss.    

Brandon: Index Exchange fill out the attestation form! It's easy, we have people that signed up.    

### Michael: K-anonymity differences from Protected Audience
Michael: For PA, IGs contain in advance the render urls of ads that appear. This means that the browser maintains the K-anon state of each of those ads. When an ad that is not yet k-anon the browser tells k-anon server that it 
should be +1 because it tried to show k-anon. All three of those things are different in the ADAPI. There is still a k-anon server that is not run by browser but run by TEEs by DSPs. 
I would love to hear how all these pieces come together?    

Brandon: David do you have an ask?     

David: Something related to standardization and K-anon that I can ask later.    

Brandon: About pre-registering that is different. So during bidding service buyers can say at ad auction time there is a diff creative that we can add during auction (generatebid).
We have a k-anon service, that roughly = to PA for sharding. When we have bids that come back to buyer front end. What is the kanon value? Keep track of that meta data, 
which is transferred to the front end. Keep track of ghost winners (kanon/non-kanon) prioritize sending kanon. The winners will report to the buyer front end, kanon server and increment the k-count. 
We function roughly the same but in a different environment.    

Michael: Just to make sure: At auction time, the render url that comes from DSPs bidding service gets sent to a kanon server that is also being run by that same DSP. 
That kanon service will return the kanon status and that will get forwarded from the DSP run bidding service and gets handed to SSPs ad selections service in the TEE. 
That takes the TEEs job is this K-anon or not. Picks 2 winners.    

Brandon: We never expose the kanon status.    

Michael: This is trustworthy because this is passed around in a TEE. This tells me how k-anon effects in the auction. How do joins work (you should add 1 to the ad)   

Brandon: K-anon returns result to browser “hey this is a less critical path” goes backwards.   

Michael: Is that the SSP or DSP. Is it a new type of request?   

Brandon: Its a new request for the buyer front end. Very similar to getbids() another message thats handled and routed to the service. Worth noting, 
Edge is not enforcing k-anon similar to chrome. Work needed to be done: replication, would not expect full k-anon functionality at the moment:    

Michael: The kanon service itself, is running in a TEE and here is the open source code base. Or is it a closed source thing? (Edge decided what the binary)   

Brandon: It is open sourced Apache 2.0 licensed. In the end state. There would be a small component similar to KMS released that allows verification that allows uniqueness from the browser client.   

Roni: One of the gaps that exists today: when bids are extracted from kanon it is invisible that this happens (no reporting winner- if it didn't pass kanon threshold) so it looks like something is wrong. 
You get stuff if kanon goes through, but when bids are retracted there is no indication in reporting that this happens. This is difficult from sellers perspective. Has the edge thought about this?    

Brandon: We haven't spent effort evaluating this. If there is an existing FLEDGE issue or if you can add an issue here?    

Roni: I will track that down.   

Issac: Hypothetically if someone from MSFT commented on that it can go there. I thought about this. Often a seller would get a report on what they could have made if their audit setting was different.
You get a random sample and we will show here is the random sample (top 15 bids and reasons they didnt win) Would you see this as slotting into that type of idea?   

Roni: Not quite. There are always 3 versions of this. 1. Onboard new DSP, see IGs join… we see calls to generatebid() how can we see that we have impressions. Its invisible.   

Issac: Lets ignore any desire we have for event level data. Would it be helpful if we had something that can aggregate certain hours a day that gave you the reasons bids are losing. 
It might have projection reasons (framework reasons etc.)    

Roni: There are some things you can reverse engineer from aggregate. It will look like the bid landscape is twice as large as it is.   

Issac: Is this a classic: does aggregate solve everything?   

Roni: If a bid is retracted it goes back, and there is another round when you submit another bid. How many of score ads were from one round and the next round. 
It gets complicated when you are trying to compare things. Flagging this as a gap in K-anon. The gap of not knowing call to decision logic is the first time or second time around the loop bites new developers. 
Happy to report properly.    

Issac: We agree that this is in the bid landscape. Challenge in privacy. Does aggregate solve everything? There is a current auction mechanic that is confusing and problems we want to solve.   

Michael: Aggregate already [exists](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/blob/main/FLEDGE_extended_PA_reporting.md#reporting-api-informal-specification) Bid rejection #8 is because the bid did not meet k-anon threshold. 
The stuff Issac mentioned exists today in aggregate. If there are holes in these capabilities in devtools we are happy to improve. The in the wild (can you get a stream of reports) exists?    \

Roni: Is it available in scoreAds() or only generatebid()    

David: I thought the recent work  added stuff for the sellers.   

Michael: I don’t know what you can do inside scoreAd() unless Paul…We should check. If this was inside scoreAd() would that help Roni?    

Roni: Having some sense of how often scoreAd() was called would be helpful. I will create issues or find them again.    

Issac: The term is misleading, bid landscape is a sell side thing. Michael, do you have anything else for bid landscape/kanon side?    

### Fabian: Talk about open source requirement. How it will Edge code be synchronized with Chrome code?
Brandon: Everything is apache2 licensed so we have to release source code. How edge does this is similar to chromium source code. We will release a compilable set of source code with source that we build. It will be published [here](https://thirdpartysource.microsoft.com) under “Microsoft Edge Ad Selection” for each version and is aligned with other OSS projects like Edge with how we release source code.    

Brandon: 100% auditable and buildable yourself   

David: Fabian you want to be able to see the granular commits?   

Fabian: that's the feedback I gave. But I would like to see a truly open source approach. This is a trusted code base should be working without side effects. good practice to do open source reviews.    

Issac: Right now there is Chrome and Edge I heard you mentioned a single repo?    

Fabian: Would like  to clearly see the differences from git comparison and have a single repo or a fork somehow   

Brandon: We have offered numerous times to contribute in that space. Bidding and auction services from Chrome have not engaged.    

Michael: I am not sure. They have a call every other week.    

David: Have those folks ever showed up here?    

Issac: I don’t know.. I am not sure that conversation hasn't happened.    

David: Would Priyanka be the right person for outreach?      

Michael: I would be happy to ask folks inside google to come to this.      

Brandon: B+A for azure support and improvements to B+A. If a different forum is better for facilitating and may change their previous answers that let us know!   

Issac: Preferable to have an issue in our repo. Add this to word doc similar to Chrome. Fabian, are you referring to not only the code itself but also the spec on how auction works etc? Or strictly code?   

Fabian: Just code, when I look at this I see differences. Now we have to maintain several systems so if there are things that can be shared it would be good for developers.    

Issac: Please open a linked issue for this. If this was also on the conceptual spec level we should have a discussion.    

Michael: I was going to pull up your github page of the deltas between chrome and Edge. Thank you for maintaining this page, it is helpful. K-anon section says details added soon so I asked the question today. 
If there is a link to add. I would love to hear more about differences in attribution. I haven’t seen anything that talks about ARA nodifications here. If there are gaps I would love to learn more about it.       

Issac: There is a longer answer. We should probably remove that line and come back to it another time.    

Brandon: event- level attribution etc. is coming in the next iteration.      

Michael: Not apart of the OT?    

Brandon: We have event level reporting but not aggregation.    



