# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, April 4th at 9 am CET / 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT  
Scribe: Erik Anderson  
Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.  
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/

## Agenda
Differences between PPA and Ad-selection API
Interest groups
Privacy model approaches (K-anonymity, differential privacy, user controls) 

## Attendees (sign yourself in):
Roni Gordon (Index Exchange)
Laurentiu Badea (OpenX)
Brian May (Dstillery)
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)
Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)
Konstantin Stepanov (Microsoft Ads)
Caleb Raitto (Google Chrome)
Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
Yanush Piskevich(Microsoft Ads)
Elias Selman (Criteo)
Arthur Coleman (ThinkMedium)
Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
Arun Nair (Google Privacy Sandbox)
Pooja Tetali (Microsoft Edge)
Jonasz Pamuła (RTB House)

## Notes:
GitHub - WICG/privacy-preserving-ads: Privacy-Preserving Ads
privacy-preserving-ads/API Differences.md at main · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)

## Minutes:

Differences between PPA and Ad-selection API
Pooja: Wanted to talk about differences between PPA and Ad Selection API. Do folks have things they want to talk about with interest groups?

Isaac: We had some things we wanted to talk about, but please also put in topics into the doc you want to talk through. Also fine to do cross-posting to FLEDGE repo topics.

Brandon: Having a dedicated issue in our repo helps us track specific requests in ours.

Brandon: talking about k-anon topics, user privacy controls, etc. We have more people from Edge and MS Ads since last time that can help talk through how folks want to manage interest groups.

Jonasz: I will make sure to submit an issue. From our point of view, the question is really simple– we think it is valuable for advertisers to be able to say that interest groups created on our side shouldn’t be mixed with other sides when selecting a bid for this or other interest groups. Full isolation of interest groups during bidding based on the domain those interest groups were added at. Does this make sense?

Jonasz: Last time we also discussed a different topic. We talked about making sure the ads that get added to an interest group are not ads for a different advertiser. A different topic, though, I think.

Brian: Should we consider domain isolation or domain list isolation?

Jonasz: I think so. Our use case is very simple. Maybe other use cases to mix interest groups for an allowed set of sites. But if we start with a very simple use case that would be a lot of value already for us.

Isaac: [Discuss process about queuing up topics or FIFO]

Michael: To make sure I understand the suggestion. I think I’m hearing that the per-domain isolation, where interest groups do not interact with each other, is the Chrome model now which is what I think you’re describing. I think you’re saying that the difference between the Chrome visibility model where an IG only knows about itself and the Edge visibility model where the groups owned by the same owner can see them at the same time. Looking to see that behavior, when creating an IG, be controllable to define “only by same owner, only by myself” or some other hierarchy. Great idea in general, the two APIs have done a good job so far of being similar to each other. Behavior differences make a lot of sense to make sure callers know what to expect when they do something. The behavior differences should be opt-in. My default, knee-jerk reaction is the existing behavior that Chrome has where IGs are only visible to themselves is the default (because I have a stake in the ground and that’s the code we’re already running with).

Michael: My proposal would be to have the Edge behavior be something that is explicitly opt in. visibility=owner, or something like that (however you spell it). For now, the answer could be Chrome ignores the attribute, but could be a nice, easy progression from one behavior to two different behaviors.

Isaac: That sounds really interesting. The thing I’d be curious to dig more on with everyone is, “which entities would get to have any control in that?” Forgetting a second about if it’s on the IG, which might make sense for some entities, I could see three entities having an interest. Owner, advertiser themselves, and then the user. I’m curious for anyone’s thoughts on what you’re thinking there.

Brian: I think we should include the points at which IGs can be mutated. Must be defined up front or can you change your mind at some future point?

Brandon: To add to that, that’s the discussion we we having internally. From our point of view, we might lean more toward to the default being the opposite. Embedder might be able to choose what the best default it. If more people want the default to not share, we'll probably lean in that direction. Would be awesome to hear from others on the call on preferences.

Michael: On the subject of “default” from cross-browser standardization standpoint, same default, same code having the same behavior across browsers would be ideal. Developers can’t depend on a default if they can’t agree what to do. Saying you must specify or get whatever behavior the browser feels like could work, but I think best cross-browser standardization practice is to define same default behaviors. I realize this is making my life easier and yours harder in this specific instance.

Michael: As far as who should get control of the bit. I feel like we, Protected Audience in Chrome, have not done a good job of making good, clear options for different parties to set options to control. When you create an IG, you specify all kinds of things, but it’s the caller of joining the IG that controls everything. Something we’ve thought about but not invested in is letting the site where joinAdInterestGroup is called (the advertiser site), specify some rules to say “you can create IGs on my site, but only if they meet some requirement X.” For example, a “me only” setting. Bunch of other things that could be appealing. The other thing that has come up is, who the ad is for the benefit of. You can only create ads for things tied to my domain or something like that. Seems hard for the browser to know if it’s actually following the rules, so the reason we haven’t pursued this “advertiser site gets to impose rules” thing so far is it’s hard to enforce rules the browser doesn’t know how to. But this flag is the best candidate I’ve heard for an advertiser environment control that the browser can ensure will be honored.

Brian: I find it gets tricky pretty quickly once an IG has been created and rules tied to the IG. Puts limits and requirements on other participants. Don’t want one entity to set a “only me” IG and then create the same one with a “sharing” flag. Gets dicey when you have more than one.

Isaac: On the “default” question. I think I definitely agree that, in the case the entity is the owner or advertiser, that having the same default would make sense. Since easily overridable, that’s straightforward. If we get into the case of the user having some control, that gets into the experience the browser providers is choosing to provide. Not saying it wouldn’t cause issues, but probably more interesting.

Isaac: I agree with what Michael said, split out into pieces– We can do a better job of abstractly providing input to different entities in this process. I think this came up on the publisher side where we were talking about the publisher being able to observe events independently of the buyer or seller. Sounds like we’re agreed we want to do something there. Maybe some hooks where that is easy and some where that is hard. If we’re agreed on an IG merging structure, advertiser could have a well-known file with instructions and framework can apply those. Brian– I didn’t follow the bit about incentives for creating IGs, can you elaborate?

Brian: I was concerned about a case where one person creates an IG, then another creates another IG with different permissions. I assume some kind of controls or guards but we should keep it in mind. Should figure out what they can change in that interaction.

Isaac: DSP and data broker on the same site, might choose to create it differently?

Brian: Yeah.

Isaac: With advertiser-wide site control could help.

Brian: In terms of defaults, I’d prefer least access and build out from there. Everyone is shooting themselves with the smallest possible gun at first. Might want to have a priority of controls, maybe something like “users have greater priority than advertisers have greater priority than service providers.” Maybe have something that can be amended based on specific implementations of IGs.

Paul: You took what I was going to say! It sounded like “either/or” advertisers/users. I wanted to make the point there’s some hierarchy we probably want to put into place for how it works.

Isaac: Something like, “Hierarchy of constituents” is in the W3C. Users before… other things… yep, makes sense.

Roni: One of the things that has come up a number of times on Chrome side, and there’s been issues in that repo (https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/951). Traffic shaping. The inability for exchanges to know a priori to know who to reach out to. Going to be more and more significant as we move this server-side. I’m curious what your approach or perspective is on that in terms of what we’d be able to do, what’s out of scope. When we had these discussions, it was just “yet another one of those 1 bit leaks that’s more than 1 bit, so thou shall not pass.” Is there an analogue here?

Isaac: Good question and we should answer it more than we have. I do want to ask, is it worth treating this as a part two issue?

Roni: Yep, wanted to add it to the list of things but fine to discuss in a future call if we run out of time.

Isaac: Sounds like some good collaboration here. We’re agreed that there should be some ability for the advertiser to have some ability for the advertiser to specify some setting. Ability to specify if IGs can merge. Across sites where they originated could be one level. Not saying (never said) we’d merge IGs across owners. Across an owner, across sites. Edge would have an additional option to merge IGs within a site. There’s some openness to a user being able to specify what they want. May have other settings that make sense to allow other entities to influence things, but worth thinking through it.

Hillary: I’m hearing this group talk about creating a really gangster security model with a ton of nuance that’s visible to everyone else in the supply chain. Sounds like it’s asking for a lot of complexity and pretty error prone.

Isaac: Am I way off base?

Brian: Similar levels of complexity with ad tech now. Not clearly delineated now, but have dealt with similar issues with partnerships and data sharing.

Isaac: Jonasz made a point last time that this is an opportunity for this to be more enforceable and visible to the user by the browser. You’re right we need to put things to paper and discuss effects. Brian is right that we’re adding more complexity to what exists today.

Brian: We have lots of partnership complexities that aren’t obvious. Clear maps for everyone is great. I suggest we develop consistent language regarding roles. An advertiser may be an owner, may not be.

Isaac: If we go to the level of having a user control, want to make that pretty bullet proof. If it’s the advertiser, not saying we shouldn’t get it right, but more room for debugging and nuance there. Sounds like we’re agreed.

Brian: Particularly with user role, they should be able to turn on/off whatever they deem appropriate. With ownership roles and federated systems where someone may be generating a lot of on-browser resources they use on behalf of partners, need to consider what relationships they might have.

Michael: Conversation covered what I was going to say. The ads ecosystem today has many different parties interacting in many different ways, imposing many different conditions on each other as part of other agreements to work together. A small fraction of those things could be expressed to the browser and have the browser help enforce those agreements. No way the browser can do all or even most of them. Don’t want to go down the path of defining every way they can interact with each other and have the browser enforce them. No hope of ever succeeding with that. In cases where the ads ecosystem already gets along reasonably with companies coming to agreements with other companies to use data in mutually acceptable ways, I’m worried about the browser being involved more than absolutely necessary. I do agree for user control the browser should do something novel and new and the user is often not considered today which is what privacy-preserving APIs are about– giving users some more control. But let’s not be too ambitious.

Isaac: Yep, closing this topic today for now. Some good consensus for us to iterate on here. 
We can write things, but other should file issue and or comment in existing ones.

Isaac: Roni, your question was about traffic shaping and getting into the physics optimizations we’ve talked about in the past.

Roni: At the end of the day, one of the many roles of exchanges is to ensure DSPs get only what they want. Only what they want in this case is auctions where the users have their interest groups more often than not. Willing to subscribe to 100% might not be privacy safe. But expectation that you’re bidding on something valuable. Don’t have something like a buyer UID, what would be the proxy to make sure we’re not making a request just because we don’t know anything.

Isaac: Focusing on “I’m a DSP, do I care about you calling me for a particular request based on some heuristic about the data.”

Roni: Yeah, if you want to take the standard example of remarketing. A DSP that is 100% remarketing, absent a 3p cookie they don’t want the traffic. Today, if that DSP exists absent a buyer UID, they get zero QPS. If I move to a cookieless world, since I don’t know, I would need to send them all requests. Undesirable from both sides of the equation.

Isaac: Would you consider below the level of user data, but something about limits between a DSP and SSP to rate limit? Seeing lots of failed requests, please back off, would you include that?

Roni: No, just the “replacement for 3p cookie” and how “matched or unmatched” has nothing similar in the contextual request today, so lost a knob and the spigot is always open.

Brian: Spigots are always open and spraying everyone you can possibly spray. Interested in the implication that SSPs should control auctions and participation.

Isaac: What we’ve talked about internally a bit, my lack of clarity will make it clear why we haven’t put something public yet, but putting hooks in the seller side to allow those determinations to be made… specifically, looking at user data available to me as a buyer, have some per-buyer config that can be returned by contextual auction, might be a function itself. Providing some type of hook there so the buyer can have the Chromium code evaluate something. In terms of a configuration, something relatively simple around interest groups and amount of data in them. I like the idea of it being a function talking to the trusted key-value server but not something we’ve gotten deeply into. My answer so far is, “we don’t have a great answer.” We clearly need another hook that is gated to do this type of thing. Again, some config or function that goes into the auction. But nothing formalized yet.

Roni: That’s a starting point. Are you imagining the buyer would indicate this? Visible to the seller somehow?

Isaac: Multiple points and multiple ways to shape traffic based on a buyer setting. Like last 5 minutes, last 10 minutes, are things we do in our SSP. Per-buyer config would be visible to seller– would that be an issue?

Roni: The tricky part is it’s not about the ad selection API process. You have the IGs and can make a choice you want. Challenge is getting per-buyer signals.

Isaac: Are you referring to, contextual auction runs, SSP/DSP have traffic shaping set up and make new decisions. Or contextual auction, seller about to run private ad auction, rather than spraying everything to buyer frontend, you might not do that based on some logic that is based on the request itself.

Roni: Presence of IG is a signal the buyer is interested in the IG-based auction. To your point they might want to further indicate they don’t always want that and have some IG secret sauce before they bid. I was talking about the contextual side. If we’re going to go with the sequential model, source of per-buyer signals is the contextual auction. DSP only getting called if they have a 3p cookie, but no 3p cookie exists and they want to send a signal. I’m stuck. Garden hose now. Everyone gets wet. What do I do here? There’s a point at which the B&A equivalent, the encrypted payload comes in and it is an opaque blob with all of its secret sauce so I can’t look in, as a seller the IGs of the buyer don’t interest me. More the fact that I don’t know if it’s noise or not, limiting the opportunity of DSPs to provide per-buyer signals. Dice roll? Backdoor request from protected auction? Trying to figure out where communication happens.

Brian: The question comes down to, wanting to know what IGs are available to bid so that the seller can tell folks I have a request you’re interested in. Maybe a way to include buyers the seller doesn’t normally have a partnership with. Gets complicated quick. Can I get a list of IGs so I know what buyers to call? Need to review privacy implications.

Michael: I’ll give the Chrome answer.  Unfortunately we have not found a satisfying answer. The most natural thing is to ask for the contextual request going to the seller to indicate one bit per buyer that the seller works with. Just the bit that says if the seller has an IG on the device or not. Simple, straightforward, right? The sad truth is that if the seller works with a hundred buyers, that’s 100 bits of info specific to the user on this device and easily a unique identifier. Seller could identify this browser vs. every other one in the world. We normally try to solve this with noise, inject a bunch of fake 1s into the structure– all of the buyers plus 20 random ones. Spent a lot of time with researchers to see if there’s any version where the noise is helpful in this case. The answer has consistently been “no.” If you add noise, you get back to the bad state of fire hose spraying many people before you get any user protection. That’s the bad news part, the easy way to solve things seems hopeless.

Michael: The good part of the answer is, inside the world of trusted servers with them running inside a trusted execution environment, no problem at all having TEEs talk to each other about something like which buyers have interest groups. Once you’re inside the TEE they can talk to each other just fine. Still need some noise to make sure someone listening in on the pattern of communication between different TEEs can’t learn something (which we’ve been calling chaff) can absolutely do the job. Not identifiable or traceable to a single person. The thing Roni is asking about is the part of the auction that happens in the clear before it gets moved into the TEE zone, the answer has been that we haven’t found one. But TEE is one way forward. Other way forward is looking for things you can do in the clear without knowing everything about the buyers that are on the device. Caching layers– same seller talking to the same buyer about the same web page lots of times. If you don’t know anything about the users, can at least cache on the same contextual request. Hopefully that was a useful overview.

Isaac: I would imagine you might say that “if we could put more into the private space” and I don’t think TEE based or on-device matters, “please make this contextual call, orchestrate it for me” if there are zero interest groups, don’t call it. Good enough?

Michael: The Chrome model is we assume all ad techs share data with each other, so saying we’ll send a request directly to each buyer is better than telling the seller who all of the buyers are, but if it would be easy for all of those buyers to recognize the requests came from the same auction, they could work together to create a user identifier. Back in the same place.

Brian: Two ways I know to deal with an issue like this. Create noise, which creates inefficiency. Other is send everything to everybody. Other way is to limit access to sensitive info. Becomes difficult with point to point communications that can be observed between buyer and seller and what is lit up when.



