# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, April 18th at 9 am CET / 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT  
Scribe: Erik Anderson  
Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.  
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG:](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)  
# Agenda
- [Advertiser's control over Interest Group merging · Issue #59](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/59)
- Feedback: Differences in k-anonymity implementations
- Should DSP have k-anon services? 
    - Alpha/impl in EDGE - when?
- [Trusted Server Flexibility: Allow TEEs To Call Each Other More Flexibly, All TEEs can be KVs](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1140)  

If you want to discuss a topic in the next meeting please submit an issue [here](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/new)!
# Attendees (sign yourself in):  
Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)  
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)  
Laurentiu Badea (OpenX)  
Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House) // first 30m  
Arthur Coleman (ThinkMedium/IDPrivacy)  
Siddharth Sharma (Microsoft Edge)  
Kapil Vaswani (Microsoft)  
Jonasz Pamuła (RTB House)  // first 30 mins only  
Yanush Piskevich(Microsoft Ads)  
Pooja Tetali (Microsoft Edge)   
Guillaume Polaert (Pubstack)    
Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)  

# Minutes:

## [Advertiser's control over Interest Group merging · Issue #59](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/59)
Jonasz: Bookkeeping on my end. Wanted to make sure it was tracked. Discussed last time. Tracking if advertiser can decide if their IGs can be merged with others during bidding.

Yanush: One question for you. You say it will be enough for some new options/a flag in joinInterestGroup where, from an advertiser perspective, you don’t need something beyond if IGs created by your site has this option.

Jonasz: Not opposed to privacy model in general where they can be merged. In our experience, some advertisers we work with want to ensure their data won’t be used to boost campaigns from other advertisers. This would be one very simple way to technically enforce some limitations. Would be very useful for our advertisers that we work with. As an advertiser, I should be able to inspect ad tech code on my site to verify they won’t mix IGs with IGs from other sites.

Isaac: Jonasz– my understanding is that this would probably, in some ways, we already do with DSPs. We provide data on impressions and whatnot. This would give additional transparency guarantees. Last time we said maybe different parties could impose restrictions, but to keep it simple say the advertiser. In the spec I think we’d said the merge function can potentially return groupings if it wants and then this would be restriction on the merge function. How to implement it is an interesting question. Great from a transparency story.

Arthur: Working on running a server. On this subject, as a product owner and customer I have a strong opinion. This comes under a larger topic– audience creation. There have been two lines of thinkings in Google meetings and here that need to be thought about as a whole. Take IDs and merge them in a privacy-protecting manner and to be able to create a third group. Baby monitor buyers who are truck buyers was brought up last week. Being able to do that is important to get different kind of audiences and I believe it should be possible to do in a privacy-preserving manner. Merging IGs from partners is another. Presents cross-site tracking problems. As a product owner, will put in requirements for engineers that I want them to do. I think this is an area where if you can do it, it’s an advantage to Microsoft. I don’t agree fully with Google that it’s a big issue, I think they’re being too restrictive (personally) and I think they’ve said they’re willing to learn. Critical to advertisers and publishers and would love to see it brought forward; hopefully both platforms will ultimately do it.

Brandon: A question on that. We are saying we do support that. What was brought up was that some advertisers want to opt out of it. Is that what you view it? As an opt in?

Arthur: Not sure about as an opt in, but yeah. Sometimes I want to share, sometimes I want to exclude. As I think about it, there’s an interesting variant to do it on an IG by IG basis which would be important to capture.

Brandon: Makes sense. By the next meeting, in two weeks, we are planning to update documentation to reflect current thinking. Maybe an off-by-default parameter when joining an IG, sounds reasonable.

Arthur: I would have it off by default, that goes without saying. Always be more restrictive first.

Brandon: Easier from platform point of view it’s easier to opt in.

Isaac: This all lines up with what I remember from last week. I do think that when we update our docs we should be clear about what entities make a choice, the order of precedence. We said ad tech can make that call when they join. Potentially advertiser/publisher can override. And then finally the user would have ultimate control. Significant difference between user opt in and ad tech opt in and then a chain of custody of each choice.

## Feedback: Differences in k-anonymity implementations- Should DSP have k-anon services? 

Brandon: With Ad Selection API we are focused on server auctions, not local. K-anon checks, instead of happening locally async, instead have DSP or buyer have a k-anon TEE instance. Close to where the score ad and everything happens. Want to see if there are concerns, thoughts, other feedback on that.

Jonasz: My understanding is that you describe a technical approach to honor k-anon guarantees. What practical things would that have on an advertiser or buyer?

Brandon: There would be another container/TEE instance to be hosted. We hope it’s small, not a lot of cores/RAM, but still there. The functional aspect is that, when the browser is doing it, it’s very async. Imagine you’re checking a creative and say “hey it’s not k-anon” and then it waits until it hits 50 or 100 instances. But it’s cached for something like a day. With the local cache, it doesn’t realize it’s been k-anon for a longer period. With the server, it can recognize that sooner.

Isaac: The ability to control and scale/structure. One of the concerns I’ve always had with this is being dependent on a shared-everywhere service and not being able to control your own operations. The theory of you sharding your data and responding in a way that leads to large data operations where, “hey it’s down at 3am,” you are more in control of your own destiny to get it back up.

Jonasz: Two costs with running a new service. Infra cost itself– cost to set up servers in the cloud. My understanding is this would be amortized by the buyer running the buyer front end to handle the actual bidding. And the operational cost, how much does it take for us to understand how to set it up, how not to break it. The easier it is, the better (obvious comment). If this service was part of the buyer front end service so that it doesn’t require additional attention, that would be great; not sure if that’s possible. But to the extent you can make the operational part easier, it would be great.

Brandon: Thanks for the feedback. Current thinking is it’s a different service to enable scaling at different rates. At least with Azure, you can do multiple container instances in one VM if it has enough resources. Might have two containers within the same confidential computing instance. To your point about ease of deployment. Wouldn’t expect k-anon to be super configurable, not expecting buyers to tweak it. Hopefully just deploy, point buyer front end to it, and you’re good.

Isaac: I would imagine we would, as we develop the TEE approach, this and other things that will come up– even if not highly configurable– we would try to make the integration between it and the other TEEs as easy as possible.

Brandon: Yep. As we get to public preview phase and if you get into challenges with it being awkward to hold, we’d like feedback.

## [Trusted Server Flexibility: Allow TEEs To Call Each Other More Flexibly, All TEEs can be KVs](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/1140)

Isaac: Would be interested in talking about an issue I opened with Chrome which came up at the conference.

Erik: Can you give an overview?  

Isaac: Been thinking about the future, trying to stand up a K/V server internally. The trusted execution environment is fairly constrained, some of it intentional. It seems like we almost have a set of servers where we can write code, deploy to, put data there to take our campaigns and put them there, etc. What I proposed to the Chrome folks via the issue, is to do two things with the TEEs. Any of the TEEs could be backed by one of these K/V stores. The bidding service being able to be on the same box as one of these K/V things, the interaction would need to be controlled. And then the second piece of this would be that the TEEs could, at the very least those that you own, could talk to each other more flexibly. The idea would be that I would be able to tell buy and sell side groups that, it won’t be easy, but could take microservices we have from one environment to another, but then effectively running the same logic and same data. I’m definitely not naive that there will be challenges there. Right now we’re saying you can put things only in one place, a K/V server with a user-defined function (UDF) for it. But if we could map topologies better, scale services better, have smaller points of failure, it’s a direction I’ve been thinking about.

Arthur: I have a question– there’s always a trade-off between control and simplicity. Right now, when I look at what I have to do, the question I’m getting my hands around is the basic setup. The question is, is this an out the gate requirement, is it a priority to do it now? Or get used to the basic system and bring it in? I can imagine different design approaches and I’m not sure I need it now (from a business need perspective). How do you look at it from the business perspective?

Isaac: Don’t see it as a requirement for a business to do. Use buyer front end and K/V service, not saying to get rid of that; don’t want a breaking change. It is correct to say that you today could take your entire stack into the K/V service, bidding service, but that is just impractical to the point it is constraining on the business. And I would see this, if I could snap my fingers and have it tomorrow, this is what we would pursue as one of our major long-term solutions, including for interacting with aggregated data. The current model will be very constraining and expensive.

Arthur: I like the approach– more power and flexibility always better? I’d say yes. But dev requirements of getting it out the door and the prioritization of it. Out the gate, would it add to my ability to get there faster/sooner/lower cost.

Isaac: Even though not directly about a feature like multi-slot/tag/size/whatever, in the conversations we’ve had at other meetings internally, there’s a lot of “oh, wow, what do we do once we get past the adoption phase?” I think it would be a target.

Erik: Dense topic, probably lots of future conversation.

Isaac: With limited thinking so far, what are initial thoughts, any browser issues?

Brandon: Open-ended communication between TEEs needs to be carefully thought through both for privacy and perf reasons. Need to think about how those interactions would work, spec them out, and then analyze if it would work well.

Isaac: What do you mean by “performance”?

Brandon: When we’re thinking of the web platform, awesome to provide tools for devs to do what they want. But need guardrails to make sure they can’t shoot themselves in the feet. When an API can be called in some way, it could be called in a tight loop that creates performance problems that slows things down. We sometimes call it developer ergonomics.,

Yanush: A call from one TEE to another needs to be encoded/decoded, could have perf impact.

Isaac: I would strongly push for… the privacy footgun thing I get… but ad techs taking tradeoffs for systems as intended within boundaries we set, needing to understand perf implications, we shouldn’t be playing any part in that. Server-side engineers are well used to things, doesn’t seem like an appropriate constraint.

Erik: Platforms need to make sure they provide the right design to avoid unexpected performance cliffs (and privacy ones).




