# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, March 21st at 9 am CET / 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT
Scribe: Isaac / Erik

Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.  
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/   

## Attendees:  
Brandon Maslen (Microsoft Edge)  
Isaac Foster (MSFT Ads) 
Paul Farrow (Microsoft)  
Tim Hsieh (Google Ad Manager) 
Jacob Goldman (Google Ad Manager)  
Sophia Cao (RTB House)  
Jonasz Pamula (RTB House)  
Roni Gordon (Index Exchange)  
Arthur Coleman (OnlineMatters  
Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)  
Taranjit Singh (Jivox)  
Garrett McGrath (Magnite)  
Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTBH)  
Laurentiu Badea (OpenX)  
Siddharth VP (Jivox)  
Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)  
Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)  
Caleb Raitto (Google Chrome)  
Russ Hamilton (Google Chrome)  
Wendell Baker (Yahoo  



## Notes:
GitHub - WICG/privacy-preserving-ads: Privacy-Preserving Ads




## Minutes:

RG: can we have a calendar invite
PF: yeah, is there a WICG rule, we should I guess?
EA: calendering is the best, MSFT made it so good, lots of issues with concurrent stuff, we can try to do a thing
MK: google group borrowed from Charlie, seems to work the best, calendar invite that google group is invited to seems to be best answer I know of.

EA: please sign in, use queue in the future for now but we’ll use hands for now.

RG: doc says raise your hand! Couldn’t change agenda. Curious about…fundamental differences between the two (Fledge/AdS), client vs server is intuitive, want to dig into the privacy differences, curious how we’re bridging the gap.

EA: I’ll start, fairly high level, docs are high level
Roni: lots of things to discuss, let’s start with size?
Isaac: Size is under described in the docs. Not focusing on the client vs. server piece, the core difference in privacy model that we’ve put forward here is that mixing cross-site signals is okay provided it’s in an opaque process with differential privacy output gates. We stated explicitly both from an API compat perspective and general direction perspective we think there’s potential and we think that there’s a number of features that ad tech needs or at least needs to deliver a lot of value on the buy and sell side. It can be made more functional with low marginal cost (to be explored a bit), saying “let’s use the opaque worklet concept a little more aggressively.” That doesn’t get into the multi-size one, but it helps with multitag and competitive separation in page caps. That loosening lets you score ads together, run bidding on signals together, there’s some stuff we aren’t ready to publish yet around algorithms. On the multi-size issue, that goes toward one of the conversations in the issues where we say we want to more deeply integrate in ad tech concepts around default creatives and things that are well-worn. The ability to noise an output to an extent that is acceptable to the ad tech industry and maintain the flexibility to have multiple sizes like we discussed so you can’t just use the n bit leak at scale.

Jonasz: Want to start with high-level comment about the proposed API. At RTB House we’re happy to see the proposal, take part in it, and test with it by building a system that uses this API. Two aspects that are important with us. Compat with Protected Audience API, think it’s a great design choice and easier to plug in our system. The second is the choice to place computations in the cloud, we think this is a good choice. In PAAPI we think our primary environment will be the cloud and we’re happy to see this in Ad Selection API. The high level question is, “what’s the timeline?” When can we expect first tests? We think there will be a lot of bigger and smaller technical details along the way.

Brandon: goal is mid to end of the year to have tech preview. When we have more details we will publicly announce that.

Paul: generally committing to any deadline in this area is dangerous, but that’s the target we’re aiming for. Expect many questions to spring from this, will iterate on approach, hope to address things more clearly in documentation moving forward.

Jonasz: thanks for the info, we’ll stay involved and monitor to see how the timeline develops. In general, we don’t see a big blocker. We could start working on it today to plug our system in and tune it as we see how well it works.

Michael Kleber: Thanks! Delighted for the meeting. Isaac– your description of the types of things to discuss is the right taxonomy to think about. A couple of big differences between APIs that we sort of understand and can explore the differences. We started with an on-device model, lots of people here involved in supporting big server auction. Differences between on-device and cloud-only. Implications of that are worth talking about. We want to support both modes on Chrome which means we’re in a harder position that the Edge folks when you’re talking about a cloud-only approach.

Michael: what Isaac said about allowing auctions based on signals across multiple sites has many implications. Whole page optimized bidding is an implication of that decision. Happy to be involved in discussions about that even though at Chrome we’re still based on a single site for bidding. Our primary goal right now is to make sure the difference between two points of view doesn’t make it hard to experiment with both. As we develop the API, people who want to run a single blob of code can run in both Edge and Chrome versions of the API. Chrome could see “oh I don’t have IGs from more than a single site.” That’s where the API is now and we want it to continue to be as easy as possible to target both, with Microsoft Edge’s more relaxed version having more options.

Michael: Category 3 is things where we on Chrome have not found a way to make something possible and that Edge folks may have new and different things to think about to expand what we do to still get privacy. The multi-size thing is something we’ve had enormous discussions and have never found a satisfying way to do it. Differences that are not about on-device vs. cloud or single site vs multi site, I’d love to be involved in those so we can learn where there are new ideas coming to the table and we Chrome folks can understand if there are opportunities we’ve missed so far to make the API more useful than it already is that we haven’t already thought of.

Isaac: it’s heartening to hear you say that and looking forward to having a back-and-forth with you folks. I may have given short shrift to two things. First off, the work you folks did, it’s easier to come in and build on what others have done, so thank you. [other pleasantries] From a logical and physical perspective, there are things we can dig into. W.r.t. cloud/server-side, what it will allow is, as we develop these systems, there’s a lot of experience in the ad industry that we can share about how to do things that will be efficient and deal with the latency and throughput needs we have. I know that’s been a concern of mine and a lot of folks. That may open up some functional things, e.g. k-anon, if we are on server-side we have additional options on how we can distribute and partition data which we have lots of experience with. I personally think on-device in the long run is interesting, but where we are with a transition period it will be challenging. Secondly, as you alluded to, getting some of the ad tech fundamentals more in there… you folks as first mover maybe didn’t have ad tech paying enough attention at first; something simple on the ad tech side like default placements is another class of thing we can push more together.

Roni: how do you want to collaborate on these things?

Erik: GitHub issues, PRs, etc.

Jonasz: I'd like to talk about the cross-advertiser data mixing during the auction. One implication is on the privacy model. The other is how advertisers see the API. Some advertisers prefer not to use their data for other campaigns or other advertisers’ campaigns. What would be useful is if there is a technical control on advertiser side that says “can my data be mixed with others or should it be used in isolation?” That would be useful to us and we know some advertisers for whom it’s important as well.

Paul Farrow: I agree with that directionally. As a DSP and SSP we have the same kind of discussions on our side about data control ownership, 1p, 3p, those sorts of things, with different clients sensitive about different things. The use case is well-understood.

Isaac: One opportunity that will enable more functionality that will enable more of the ad tech domain model will open up things, e.g. multi-size, I do want to make sure we make smart choices about embedding assumption about ad tech stuff into it. I know exactly what you’re talking about, what I’d ask is what you envision it looking like. As opposed to the DSP using its visibility model in its backend, is there some additional value add? Or is this something to enable more interop?

Jonasz: the value I see is that when we talk to advertisers today, we can promise to them we won’t mix their data. If the IG join could allow the advertiser to easily verify how their data is used, inspect the IGs that got created while on their site and inspect the flags to confirm the browser is enforcing what they want. They don’t have to depend on DSP promise, contractual aspects. They can just look at what’s in their browser and confirm.

Isaac: So, some field/attribute on the IG that’s observable by the advertiser to restrict the merge function. Instead of being able to merge, the attribute would tell the framework to not allow merging. Good for advertiser and consumer, they can see that. They can enforce their own privacy choices for their clients, including different choices for different IGs. Interesting.

Michael Kleber: The area that you bring up, the idea that an IG on site X and for whose benefit the data in that IG ends up being used. This is not a thing where Chrome has completely nailed having the right answer here. The Chrome model makes sure user visiting site X, browser gets an IG while the user is on site X. The only data going into that is user on site X. Chrome doesn’t have any mechanism or guarantees about what ads are showing up. Nothing that prevents DSP that says “IG created on this site created for the benefit for advertiser Y.” Advertisers may be uncomfortable with data about what happened on their site is used for the benefit of their competitors. We have not found any really good answer that we’ve brought to bear. No deep sense what party an ad is being showed for the benefit of. With Edge, the potential for mixing data across different sites makes it more clear there is no control about whose benefit the data is used by the DSP. If we can have ads labeled for “whose benefit the ad is being shown” and only certain data is used for certain parties benefiting from them… that would be helpful for us on the Chrome side as well to reassure them that data is only used in the way they want it to. There’s been a little bit of discussion that’s indicated a maybe useful path forward that is based on additional reporting– after the fact– that maybe an advertiser should be able to say “create an IG on my site but only if I get some after-the-fact reporting about what ads were shown as a result of creating that IG.” Nothing we’ve built or shipped yet.

Paul Farrow: maybe I’m wrong, but that doesn’t feel like the right answer. Giving some sort of reporting about what creatives… maybe some other reporting does. Org info challenges there.

Michael: to be clear, I don’t think the after-the-fact reporting is necessarily the right solution. It’s an idea that has come up that some people like, but not convinced it solves all of the problems.

Isaac: there’s >= 2 problems here. An advertiser being able to create an IG and then advertise for other parties. I think that is separate from the issue Jonasz is calling out that, assuming I trust the advertiser I’m interacting with, keep the IG scoped to me. Having a browser-enforced way to do that, that would add some marginal value. It wouldn’t solve the advertiser still using that data for another party which is a separate issue. Interesting!

David Dabbs: to your point, Michael, you’re a user agent (Chrome or Android). That’s your first order concern– the privacy of the user. Giving some assurance that I’m not sure advertisers have today might become a more pressing thing if it’s keeping advertisers from putting their money in. Maybe a nice to have. Let’s get something out that customers will put money on and then give them something more beyond just more privacy.

Michael: That’s fair. From a Chrome point of view, certainly the user privacy controls are something necessary. The places where the browser can offer something to make it easier for businesses to interact with each other, have enough trust, are things that are nice to have. Would be good not to regress things compared today, but businesses already have lots of contracts with each other and constrain other businesses they interact with. Open to adding browser-side controls to help which is a different plane than user controls where users don’t have a two-way contractual relationship in the same way. We want the ad tech industry and their customers on advertiser and publisher side to support this API. Speaking as “team browser” and not “team ad tech” there are a lot more parties involved than just the ad techs. Seeing something directly from publisher or advertiser that points to things where their interests may not be 100% aligned with ad techs they’re involved with, we want to take that seriously as well.

Roni: I’m wondering if it would be useful… the framing as an Ad Selection API as an ad-tech first thing with privacy on top. Wondering if you see value in a declaration of principles. The following things must be true, users must have some privacy concerns be met, all parties need to be able to count things and see everything by default, etc. What’s difficult is there are a lot of built-in assumptions, many that are subjective. The status quo was not started this way. If we say all parties to a transaction, whoever’s buying, selling, is allowed to observe those things. The core principle is where they need to observe things. Multi-size is a thing, won’t make it go away just because it’s easier from a privacy perspective to close our eyes. May not be perfect, how it works today.

Erik: Overconstrained space. This is why we often use the word “tradeoffs.” We want to prevent pervasive cross-site tracking of users, prevent reidentification, etc. But also sensitive to folks spending a lot of time and energy on a proposal to have it get shot down for a reason they couldn’t have easily anticipated. Will have to think more.

Isaac: Good for us to call out constraints in more detail.

Premyslaw Iwanczak: Have you given thought into how the process would look. There will be an intent to ship, an OT two weeks later, etc.?

Erik: We have similar options to Chrome in terms of OTs, experiments. Will share more details when we can.

David Dobbs: Don’t want to editorialize on the WICG Wednesday process. It’s been difficult to find ways to know how to bring items up in the process so that the community has a sense of what folks are interested in, where the chunks of focus are. And so if you’re open to it, I want to suggest you do something different, run an experiment, etc. Can we use discussions, which are different than issues in GitHub, have a voting mechanism that gives a way for people that are interested to make clear what they are interested in. Not trying to define entire process, but wanted to share the thought.

Arthur Coleman: I have a request. The folks I’m talking to, one of the questions that comes up is, “What can I share? This API from Microsoft is built on top of Protected Audiences. I don’t want to build two different systems that I need to design. The cost of that is high.” One thing I’d recommend is that Google and Microsoft show how to do it PAA, here’s how you do it in the Microsoft API, so that way I can see pretty easily what I can repurpose and how I can repurpose it. For example, when you merge interest groups prior to doing “generateBid().” What does it do to the code? It’s a question I’m getting.

Erik: Request noted. Yes, we want to reduce the cost for folks to target both where possible.

Isaac: Yes, agreed. There may need to be feature detection in places, but want to reduce where that’s needed.






