# Ad Selection API Discussion
#### Thursday, September 19th at 9 am CET / 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT

## Agenda

Latest design updates 



* Bidding logic 
* Measurement and attribution API differences 

Fabian Höring 



* TPAC Agenda for PA/Ad Selection session (https://github.com/WICG/admin/issues/194#issuecomment-2333970845)
* Is there interest for a dedicated server side TEE session ? (some topic ideas https://github.com/WICG/protected-auction-services-discussion/issues/85)

If you want to discuss a topic in the next meeting please submit a Github issue [here](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/new)!


## Queue (raise your hand on Teams)

Latest design updates



* Recently published docs on ad selection api 
* For bidding workflow 

1.  We pass all interest group in one request (pass as a list vs just one) to generic bid. Multiple bids can generate (list of bids) 



* After you get an interest group from java script, communicate with seller front end, we have the same comms with buyer mod, buyer front end sends info to bidding service. Pass info to generic user function. 
* Allow feature to split interest group, so you have an option to bid separately 

2. Key value service: communicates with key value service using hooks. Doesn’t need any signals. Can only call key value service in TEE. The schema of bidding service and key value service will be the same 

3. Generic bid function will have access to a bid function called getadditional signals. This will be in the starting config. You can use this to capture additional bidding signals. 

4. Update keyvalue service: Implement new algorithm to capture signals for key value service (nearest neighbor) 

5. Allow you to different key value services from bidding function. 

Questions: 

Yanush: We updated docs and we have a doc on API differences which has differences from FLEDGE. 

Micheal: So the bids that are coming out of generate bids, they are not associated with an interest group. There is a bid that wins an interest group, not a single interest group? 

Yanush: No, we support the same response of generic bid function. In the function you need to return an interest group name. 

Micheal: So each individual bid has an interest group name, but there doesn’t need to be an interest group with that name? That interest group does not need to be involved in the actual selection choice. The browser has no way to know if it is associated with an interest group. 

Micheal: You must be doing K-anon checking here, after the bid is created. You can’t do any of the checking in advance because the ads url aren’t created in advance. This happens parallelly. The bid that's the highest is going to be the winner. 

Yanush: Yes.

Fabian: I cannot create custom keys? 

Yanush: No, you can create custom keys, which will be encrypted. You can’t create different urls 

Fabian: Whats the difference between keys and urls? I don’t see why the number of urls that you can hardcode is restricted

Micheal: When you say urls are you talking about… There has to be DNS resolution? How are you doing this for all of the requests? Is your key server talking to an open DNS server? 

Yanush: It will be done in the same way. You need to hardcode the endpoints you want to call. 

Micheal: You need to pre register the names of the key value service, so the DNS resolution can take place. 

Brandon: Theoretically this can be done in the cloud deployment. 

Fabian: Register the url 

Yanush: This is part of the deployment process? 

Fabian: what are the use cases you see? Why did you add this feature? 

Yanush: Ad selection, if you want to call a selection model, you need several look ups

Isaac: Ignore that there interesting service discovery, diff privacy, bit leaks, chaffing, request fan out (in the KV call) Most ad techs will have diff systems of deploying teams logic. Idea in the long run is to move to a trad computing system where you can look up. It will have a diff privacy cost but it will allow you to move your services into something more recognizable, scalable. 

Fabian: What is the diff privacy cost? 

Isaac: Comes from the request fan out. In the KV call (w/multiple shards), a request goes out to all the shards. Leaks 64 bits. That's a diff privacy cost. Now, When you make calls to diff services, the diff privacy cost is the same as the KV. This doc is not out yet. The idea is that the fanout will decrease. 

Aside from the confusing term I used, did I explain why making this more flexible? 

Fabian: No, I think it makes sense to discuss this topic in detail. 

Isaac: In your normal flow, we receive a bid request, initial lookups to do filtering on candidates, call system to get user data, bring that into the same process…compute… spit out info. In our case those 2 user lookup systems are kept separately bc 1 has high SLA and the other we except timeout. Allows us to make operational decisions. Long term theory: If you are able to assert a test that the logic is trusted, with diff privacy cost you can still do easy look ups, with the same cost. Example docs will be helpful. 

Yanush: For genericBid: we provide examples about how the code should look like (insert link) Is there any feedback on this? Any other topics? 

Fabian: Next week is TPAC. Is there interest in doing a session at TPAC. MSFT/Chrome is doing a TPAC session, do we need an additional session to discuss server side processing? 

Brandon: We have a joint session w/Google. If we have specific topics, I would be open to another session. 

Fabian: I have a bunch of topics. If your interested, I can ask for 60 min on Thurs. 

Isaac: I am all for this, are you looking to discuss specific issues, are you also interested in a broader convo about roles/standardizing TEEs

Fabian: depends on the audience, workshop/1 hr discussion. I could present Criteo benchmarks, or a more generic discussion (server-side) Fundamental syncs 

Isaac: Brandon/Micheal, what Fabian says makes sense. How easy is it for us to do something adhoc? We will organically talk about what Fabian is saying…. Do we have to get stuff reserved? 

Micheal: There is space for continuous, spontaneous discussion. Getting a room/video set up is hard but getting people who are already there at TPAC is easy. 2 hr discussion is fine. Takeaways from that session/ future discussion points. Either we discuss at TPAC or later. 

Isaac: Could Fabian just schedule something on the calendar? 

Micheal: Depends on if TPAC organizers can add a session. 

Isaac: We can do something ad hoc. Fabian, if you ask the TPAC folks, is there a room where you can do a criteo benchmarks discussion. We expect we will organically have follow ups. 

Micheal: Noah Weiss, about space allocation. Might have some rooms free. We have a 2 hour session. It seems like all of these changes, aside from interest group specificating if its ok to be combined other interest groups of same owner, the APIs from browser POV seems unchanged. All of the changes live in the server side deployment and the policy questions, what sorts a collection of TEE systems is the browser willing to send data to? 

Sounds like we don’t need to spend much time discussing diff between browser implementations? 

Brandon: Yes, one of our goals is interoperability. Once we get into details of implementation:d on’t support local auctions, send platform support header that says this is the min version supported. We will open issues on this.  But for the most part all interoperable. 

Isaac: What you said seems right Micheal. If we were to agree on common stewardship. There is some set of abstractions that are parametrized. One user agent picks…. Other picks something else…. Other picks something else. Also happens with browser. We might come to agreement on those things. 

Micheal: Similar to PATCG about measurement. This is good, So it seems like the 2 hr slot for TPAC can spend a lot of its time focused on what Fabian wants to talk about. 

Isaac: Curious about your pov Micheal? You drew distinction between browser and server side, the browser still has to choose to release data to system w/ appropriate output gates, 

Making it so that there is a common abstraction

Micheal: yes, from the technical code on user device pov (the keys) is a browser choice on a collection of standards. What is the code inside.. We need to be clear where there are differences. The key value w/nearest neighbor is diff, seems fine utility wise and fine privacy wise, seems in line w/ google. This is a coherent set of directions. Aside from ig’s have to operated independently and pre-rendered urls,, everything else seems fine/not radically outlandish. 

