# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, January 9th  at 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT   
Scribe: Pooja Tetali  

Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG: ](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

## Agenda
- [Tretyakov Alexander] [K-anon check vs. dynamic URLs · Issue #54 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/54)   
- [Daniel Kocoj] [AKS CC vs AKS ACI for Workload Attestation](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/646def61fa4a9ace3dc70c32ce1f36a05c88224a/deployment-scripts/azure/buyer-seller-services/release-4.3/services/virtual_node/main.tf#L44)  
- Informal discussion on [Ad coordination (including exclusion) - part of native advertising - continued](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/69) 

Sign up for the developer preview of the ad-selection api here 

## Attendees (sign in here) 
Daniel Kocoj (Google Privacy Sandbox)    
Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)    
Peiwan Hu    
Alexander Tretyakov (Google)    
Matt Kendall   
Andrew Pascoe   
David Dabbs   
Isaac Foster    
Viacheslav Levshukov   
Yanush Piskevich   
Suresh Kumar Chahal   
## Notes:
### K-anon check vs. dynamic URLs · Issue #54 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads

AT: How does k-anon work for dynamically-generated URLs from buyers?   
IF: We have stuff internally, have we published anything yet?    
VS: I’ll check with Brandon   
IF: Do you have any specific questions, otherwise we can have an action item to publish documentation in a couple weeks   
#### Action Item: publish the docs in the next couple weeks or so covering Alex T’s question about k-anon   
### AKS CC vs AKS ACI for Workload Attestation   
DK: Why is the AKS confidential container not the default 
VS: Its a much more secure approach when we spoke to the security team. I can bring more details (what, why) but for now we are going to use this approach and not going switch to container in the future. 
DK: So you are saying- security is the issue and not sort of functional thing
VS: Yes, but I would need to double check 
IF: We had convos with Azure folks where different Azure projects were at different levels of maturity. Is there a long-term product in line with what DK is thinking? 
VS: This was picked for security- for now we have only confidential ACI but maybe in the future we can consider another approach but not currently. Are there problems with confidential ACI for deployment? 
DK: I was wondering because the confidential container product is more streamlined, but for ACI there are more moving pieces- so I was asking about the design justification. 
VS: Yes its security. 
DK: I will post in the agenda if more come to mind. It would be useful to call out publicly in the repo why we are using confidential ACI rather than AKS.  
SC: Is this coming from a curiosity POV or is there any decision that needs to be made based on this? 
DK: No,just for understanding 
#### Action Item: Pooja to schedule meeting internally (Kapil, Slava, Brandon) 

### Informal banter about Native Advertising: 

IF: Native advertising will be in 2 weeks. Taboola brought up the ability to do competitive advertising and coordination across a page. A page load with 3 ad slots. As a seller even if your top 2 bids were from pepsi, coke and sprite you might not want to accept those top 3 because of competitive exclusion.    
MK: I agree with that as a template for what they are going for. In our discussions they brought up: they are not just thinking about top 3 ads coming from an auction, but also concerned about infinite scroll on a page.    
IF: Agree, decided to split this up into 2 parts: 1) Does ad page allow to coordinate multiple ad slots 2) On the same page load correlate scrolling and additional auctions, coordinate clients (competitive exclusion) from ad tech pov, because ADSAPI supports single auction    
MK: You are saying ADSAPI is ready (picking top n, instead of evaluating single ad)    
IF: Yes, because ADSAPI can mix different signals, sellers can insert different info in scoreAds() to resolve competitive exclusion differences.    
MK: You don’t have the PA API constraint of bidding to be from 1 other site's signals. What you have available at scoring time is mixing information from different buyers.  Does that mean that the seller that is running the auction would be technically able to look at bids from buyer #1 and use it to change bids from buyer #2 or even in the bad case, if there is a seller that is also a buyer, they can look at bids from this other buyer and upscore their own bid even though the buyer wasn’t aware of this and rank their own ad higher.    
IF: Yes, constraint: even if you can see the render urls, the things you see are still the render urls, they can only pick one of the render urls. This was the intention, you can’t change the bid also. This is a competition question that exists- could there be a way to prevent that?    
MK: What I am asking is a business asking question, but the separation of flow, has other implications for both privacy and business reasons.    
MK: One more thing that has come up repeatedly in our convos with the Taboola folks is the interactions of ads flowing through bidding vs contextually targeted ads. Their original ask: we want to get out the top n ads and know the scores of the top n ads so we can interweave them and render some private ads and some contextually- and 1P-data-targeted ads. That seems impossible to me, because it is letting way too much information out. It doesn’t sound that what you are saying wrt to the single auction touches on this.    
IF: Agree, we can’t do that    
MK: So sounds like the question you're designing for is: If you have an auction on the page, is there any way that preserves that state and lets the second auction that has all the info from the first auction.    
IF: There are good questions on if this can be on a single page load. What I was thinking- we could potentially enable this competitive exclusion thing if into the second auction went into the first part, includes a set of info, limited as much as possible (includes render urls, trusted signals which would reduce # of calls) but you could relate the second set of bids/winners to the first. What I haven’t thought through is what interesting things that could enable.    
MK: That all makes a lot of sense. I envy the position you are in, not only looking at one bid (ADSAPI) is less constraining than PA.    
IF: I want to quote: “We started with privacy advocates and got some buy-in, but the differences in nuanced approaches hasn’t been responded to by the world”- MK    
MK: I agree, and the fact that you are doing something different is a great way for us all to learn how much the differences matter.    
IF: If in a single box I can only have 1 advertiser and some contextual info, it would be tough to do anything in the box, could the auction framework provide another box where the render urls go, could things get discarded and functions would get reinvoked (bit leakage)     
MK: That approach would have some potential   
IF: scoreAd() could return an addition to the score (a float or a blob) In the blob version some set of scoring signals. I don’t know if there is any way to do it where something doesn’t get stuck in a box. Let ad tech use their meta data. Discard certain bids and re run scoring but you are not eliminating putting things in a box.    
MK: That all makes sense, I’ll have to think about it. I am still concerned about the competition question (use info coming from one buyer to change things coming from other buyer) If buyer gets to see other ads. If there is no cross bid contamination and you end up with top 100 ads, I’ll have to think about what can be the filtering pass that can help. Maybe if you see each ad serially, working down from the top, and based on ads you've seen you can decide to keep each one or throw it? Then a seller can’t promote information from a lower-down ad to a higher one.    
IF: I believe that the trade desk values this highly. If we restrict the bid, then you would have that insight inside the box but would hurt yourself by paying yourself less.    
MK: I want to avoid making DSPs or SSPs using the API less because they are worried that they might be disadvantaged by other parties' collusion. This seems to me like it ought to be a concern for both Edge and Chrome.    

