# Ad Selection API Discussion
Thursday, January 23rd  at 11 am EDT /  8 am PDT   
Scribe: Pooja Tetali    
Open discussion to review technical details and open GitHub issues for the Ad Selection API proposal.
If you want to participate, please make sure you join the [WICG:](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

## Agenda
[Omri Ariav] Ad coordination (including exclusion) - part of native advertising - contine   
[Daniel Kocoj] AKS CC vs AKS ACI for Workload Attestation   

Sign up for the developer preview of the ad-selection api here 
## Attendees (sign in here) 
Tal Bar Zvi (Taboola)   
Eyal Segal (Taboola)   
Dan Kocoj (Google Privacy Sandbox)   
Fabian Höring (Criteo)   
Michael Kleber (Google Privacy Sandbox)   
Eyal Segal (Taboola)   
Isaac Foster (Microsoft)   

## Notes:   
### Google B&A announced Azure support [Alpha for Sept 2025](https://github.com/privacysandbox/protected-auction-services-docs/blob/main/bidding_auction_services_api.md#roadmap)
would like to collaborate on design decisions for the architecture. Goal: feature parity with AWS and GCP architectures. We have concerns around GA timelines of Azure Confidential Compute components, and we would like to know more about design decisions that led to usage of AKS-ACI over AKS CC (in particular: security, GA readiness, cost per ad request   

DK: Google is averse to using technology on Azure that isn’t GA, or doesn’t fit in September timeline. Why are we not using AKA ms compute?    
KV: Chose ACI because that is GA. On Kubernetes, we are developing native containers but those aren’t GA. Eventually we want to support both options, but we went with ACI because all reviews were completed. We want to publish a cost explainer, like current ones for GCP and AWS. V2 is supported as a health based deployment, pointed to by privacy preserving ads repo. We keep it up to date. This health chart removes alot of the limitations that existed earlier. Those restrictions are gone now.    
DK: I took a look at that, my concern: for service to service comms, we are forced to use the ALB instead of client side load-balencing, which is a cost issue.    
KG: AKS is not on the table for the september timeline   
KV: For load balancer- the limitation that we have in Aci that prevents us from using it in AKS, is not a technical implementation. But its a choice we have to make. We chose a smaller service with better attack surface with stronger security measures.    
KG: You can use native ACI   
DK: But then we run into auto-scaling issues.   
KV: [n-groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-instances/container-instance-ngroups/container-instances-about-ngroups)   
KV: AKS typing into ACI will GA at some point but not right now   
DK: Our solution will look similar to yours    
KG: There is a proxy running on ACI node, VN2 is more complex that kubernetes, is what we are using internally currently.    
FH: Would like to rediscuss the needs for load-balancers needed for the buyer-front end.    
DK: We recognize its an issue, we are looking at other AWS products to address this.    
FH: Other issue: cloud platform is ross-zone support (Asia) but it is important that each solution stays on par. AWS with 1A and 1B (not sure how it works on roadmap)    
DK: Will confirm with eng   
IF:The thing you are ultimately getting at: as much compatibility between Azure support and other cloud providers support, or is it just Kubernetes support.    
DK: Not about Kubernetes support, but the functionality that Kubernetes provides.    
KV: BN2 has many of those features, modulo load-balancer.    
IF: Issue with load-balancer is that we require one.    
DK: Issue: we can’t make use of Kubernetes cube proxy client side load-balancing with ACI because you got rid of  cube proxy   
KV: That choice was made to keep TCB small.    
IF: Fundamental that we would choose to keep TCB small, not that keeping client side load-balancing    
KV: cube proxy is what is implementing client side proxy in Kubernetes.   
IF: Kubernetes being part of TC=B is something we are trying to stay away from, and we have more effective load balancing coming later. Effective cube proxy  functions haven’t been explored. Do we have a solution for non-hardware based load balancer and load balancing?    
KV: There is a solution as part of ADSAPI.    
IF: There is a physical load-balancer as apart of that   
KV Also managed load-balancer   
KG: We always needed a load-balancer for this work   
IF: We need to put thing through load-balancer thing through another thing.    
FH: What happens with key-value service?    
KV: In current GCP and AWS, you do use client side?    
DK: AWS we use load-balancer.    
FH: Interesting load-balancing when you don’t know what you are load-balancing.   
DK: Gets into advance routing, a full mesh service vs DNS routing would be interesting?    
KV: You are looking for a September timeline? Are there ways in which we can help?    
DK: Starting design now, alpha means no prod traffic so just releasing for testing. In a few months beta, releases prod traffic. Just hoping to have something published by then.    
KV:  Is this in timeline for cross-cloud coordination.    
DK: TBD because unsure about Azure support. Can I tag you or Ken/Kapil in Github?    
KG: email me.    
. 
### [Ad coordination (including exclusion) - part of native advertising - continued](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/69) 

IF: 2 categories of thing: 1. Doing competitive exclusion for multiple ads shown on page. Simple version of where the ads on page are loaded once, and you want to make sure coke/.pepsi ads aren’t next to each other, same page load. 2. Infinite scroll: same page, if someone scrolls, you want to continue to ensure competitive exclusion requirements. We kicked around some ides. Does this represent the issue well?     
TZ: Some of the problems but lets start off   
IF: For the first case, ad request -> 5 ads, that should be supported with ADSAPI, with how it is designed today. Because you are able to have scoreAds() function which scores ads from several slots vs scoreAd(). You can run checks against creatives. You can’t change the bid, but if you have 10 Ads, top ad is coke, second highest is pepsi, you can reject pepsi. Also applies to other cell-side functions.    
TZ: everything is passed via auction config structure?    
IF: Difference: buyer can return multiple bids and can identify this bid is for this impression. When scoreAds() runs it can consider those ads together and assign a winner for each impression, so you can then be able to determine the most viable ad for each slot.    
TZ: generatebid() gets the whole auction at each call?    
IF: Similar to Sandbox. Hypothetically, you pass a full bid request with slot on page etc, in the metadata you return from generatebid() to scoreads() you can indicate a bid response.    
TZ: How does that work? What is causing it to be blocked?    
IF: running on multiple ads at the same time rather than scoring each ad individually, so you don’t see those dependencies. 
TZ: Pass whatever you want in auction config, goes to scoreAds() and apply rules. 
IF:Also, scoreAds() function can see different ads submitted at the same time. Instead of scoreAds() done, you have more ability to coordinate there. 
TZ:It also means I need to get a response from auction, and spread results across multiple slots. I need to do work on my page to do this. 
IF: Yes. we made it so that values will be assigned by tag id. Will get back to you on this. 
TZ: Not serving same ad in multiple slots is not supported because then you will see what is happening. 
IF: Roadblocks (page takeover: someone pays you extra to take over page) 
MK: So we are talking about 2 differences between ADSAPI and PA. It is the case that a bidder can place a bunch of different bids for interest groups. The 2 differences: 1. scoreAds() vs scoreAd() can see all different bids when it decides which is the best. 2. The whole auction can return a collection of winners instead of one winner. We can make the second change in PA easily. 1) is a harder change to make and is a fundamental difference between ADSAPI and PA. 
MK: For Taboola, separate from seeing ads all at the same time, has come up in our discussions., How you can take multiple ads that are contextually targeted and have them compete. 
TZ: Placement of 5 slots, then you will place ads with IG in optimized place. Each ad has CPM, scoreAd() returns CPM, then we will know if you need to push down ad or leave it. 
MK: That won’t work with what IF said, because CPM  won’t come out of auction results. 
TZ: It is an option, there is a technical problem with rendering.(Leave everything in control of the framework, don’t know if there are any limitations with fenced frames) 
IF: The choice of rendering the urn is in the hands of run ad auction, clear privacy benefits to doing that. Today in FLEDGE: you can make the choice between contextual and protected winner, using a floor. 
MK: It would be easy for bids to have cross-site id, and easy for auction to return a cross-auction id. 

IF: The way you can see that being mitigated is through noising things, of having default or PSA requirements, which is a standard thing, that would change with # of slots. Putting in a limit on #slots, auctions. It isn’t a solution to making the bitleak better. 

MK: I am skeptical of this idea, I don’t think that noise is a good enough way to get out of this. Shannon channel capacity is kind of a proof that this is impossible.

TZ: Wanted to make sure I understand: regardless of implementation: when I get back values from scoreAds() I need to detect additional bid and overwrite item and understand if it is a new item or contextual item. 

IF: If you go additional bid route you get a urn for each bid slot. If you go with other route (floor) you get null or 1. Kinda the same thing. Is the thing you were thinking we were doing at the start: do the multiple slots but without the ability to get the null back? 

MK: Yes. 

IF: Not up to that yet. 

MK: If we can figure out the way to change the overall API so that both Chrome and Edge can make one change and if we figure out to do the scoring of multiple ads, it would be great if we can agree on a single output API, so the person using the APIs won’t have to determine. 

IF: Is the concern you have on the vector that can include nulls is that it is easier than what you can do than running multiple FLEDGE auctions. It is clearly more user friendly. 

MK: The leak I am talking about is the same leak that exists in PA today (running 32 auctions -> 32 bit leak) I don’t want to magnify this problem. 

IF: The one bit leak is a problem and ADSAPI has made this more user friendly. Interested in understanding Shannon theory. We didn’t get to the second part: infinite scroll, but we can talk about this next time. We discussed last time that we would create a sell-side idea similar to browser signals (passes info of interest to buyer to their bidding function from previous wins) There would be an encrypted blob from sellers, which would include in the same page load (render url) So you would not be able to return those again but you would be able to compare to previous render urls. 



