


# PARAKEET Discussion


#### **Since this week is the 2021 Privacy CG Virtual F2F, we will reschedule this meeting to be**


#### **Tuesday, May 25th at 6 pm CEST / 12 pm EDT / 9 am PDT.**

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. **[PARAKEET Polyfill](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/blob/main/Polyfill/Readme.md#parakeet-polyfill) kickoff for V0 testing.**
    1. **This polyfill will give developers early and frequent access to test the latest API shape and ergonomics for PARAKEET with test data traffic while also allowing us to iterate quickly and address any changes needed before making this a part of the web platform natively.**
2. **[Open Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)**




## Attendees:



1. Kelda Andeson (Microsoft)
2. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
3. Brian May (dstillery)
4. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
5. John-Marcus Phillips (Nielsen)
6. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
7. Shri Mohan 
8. Russell Stringham
9. Brandon Maslen (Microsoft)
10. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
11. Felix Humay 
12. Aditya Desai 
13. Aswath Mohan (Microsoft)
14. Amanda Tan (Xandr) 
15. GangWang (Guest) 
16. Brendan IAB Tech Lab / eyeo 
17. GmbH (Guest)  
18. Matt Wilson (NextRoll) 
19. Phil Eligio 
20. Starr, Chris 
21. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)


### Notes:


### [PARAKEET Polyfill](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/blob/main/Polyfill/Readme.md#parakeet-polyfill) kickoff for V0 testing.

**Mehul**: INTRO

Go through the slides to talk about implantation for Polyfill testing 

Erik to help with queue 

First, go through Polyfill library and then will go into integration testing and how to open it to development testing

Note - This is not quite ready for Production testing

**See PARAKEET v0 Testing doc:  [PARAKEET-Polyfill-V0-Testing.pdf ](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET-Polyfill-V0-Testing.pdf) **

**[PARAKEET/Polyfill](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill) GOAL:**



*   Give developers early access to test the latest API shape and ergonomics for PARAKEET with test data traffic while also allowing us to iterate quickly and address any changes needed prior to making this a part of the web platform natively.​
*   Determine a baseline for targeted advertising utilizing browser-side user interests.​

**Overview:**



*   This V0 Polyfill enables the advertiser to store user segments in the browser store. ​




*   Instead of relying on a third-party cookie for targeting, user ad interests will be passed along with contextual information in each request.​

 

Go over High-level models - to enable something like this for publishers & Advertisers we’ll use this JS library - polyfill library serving up into iframe.

Refer to the details on the GitHub:[PARAKEET/Polyfil](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill)

**Advertiser Page changes**



1. Include the PARAKEET polyfill either directly on a page or with other scripts/ad-tech (DSP)​
2. ​Use existing 1st party knowledge to select relevant interest groups or identify user features.​​
1. Execute new Javascript APIs to join the relevant interest groups with an appropriate duration.​
*   Set readers to list DSP and SSP partners you want to be able to read your interest groups.​
*   Set a duration that is appropriate. Interests will automatically expire and be excluded after this.

Similar to Advertiser the 2nd change is to enable on Publisher site

 \
**Publisher Page changes:**



1. Include the PARAKEET polyfill either directly on a page or with other scripts/ad-tech (SSP)​​
1. Execute a new Javascript API to request an ad with any contextual information or interests available. See: Create an AdRequest and serve an ad​
*   On success, create an iFrame, set the src to the provided URL, and insert it into the Document to display the ad.​
*   On failure, be sure to use sendBeacon or other mechanisms to log and track failures.

Once this is added the JS is posting this feature to the Iframe once

Once this targeting feature and segments are available - on the publisher side the Publisher or SSP can add onto the publisher site 

**John**: Q- about previous slide 

In respect to the readers in the DSP and SPP I assume that this a generic reference on behalf of the buyer or seller.

That they could be listed in the well-known endpoint even if they are not a DSP or SSP?

**Mehul**: Yes, for now- we would like to get the final party who will use it.. currently, in this dev and test env all intermediaries will be able to see this. In the next step, when the Keys are published, we will encrypt the data using a public key. All the intermediaries will not be able to open it up. They will only be able to pass it along. 

**John**: The transmission mechanism for an intermediary can be supported once your key is published. However, it sounds like the intermediary will not be able to decrypt the payload and thus read the interest group.. what then is the purpose of the intermediary? 

**Mehul**: there is an interaction w/ multiple parties



*    If we do not include the payload then you’d have to interact directly w/ browser to initiate the call separately 
*    If the intermediary  has the private key they can read it - or pass on the payload downstream for tother recipients or drop it 
*   The key is to allow for multiple DSP SSP interactions

**Mehul**:  J JS library needs to be added, and it supports the ad configuration-  & then create the iframe @ payload will have publisher ssp endpoint - the endpoint is specified by an anonymized proxy URL & will be dispatched - 

In the Dev stage, the SSP needs to make a change to understand the user interest features that are coming in.

 3rd and final, the DSP server changes  -- currently they get user ID w/  RTB schema or DSP cookie or some USER ID info

In the current Parakeet proposal, we will instead have the user interest group features encrypted w/ the private key & then the DPS will use the user context to run the auction & determine the best ad to send back

Then they can respond w/ the most relevant bid based on signal The library has more detail around encryption, this is the next step that will be coming soon

Next is the higher-level DSP flow 

**DSP Server changes**



1. Read user interest groups s (based on namespace) and publisher context c.​
2. ​Retrieve the best ad for context c and s.​
3. ​Respond with optimal bid and creative to SSP/programmatic exchange.​
4. ​To support encryption for s: Publish your public keys at well-known PARAKEET location. See .well-known/parakeet.jwk​
5. ​COMING SOON: Decrypt the interest groups that are encrypted with your public key for steps 1-3.

Any Questions?

**Jeff**: Going back to the publisher view

It looks like you created an Iframe - let me pause and look at the demo.

**Mehul**:  In Fledge, there is a local auction code to be being given w/ the frame  In PARAKEET frame, we are encrypting the features and passing the payload to the ad servers to give the final ad.

We also will be integrating the direct flows into this in the next steps

**Aswath**: Clarify on John’s question

**John**: Understood that publishing the well-known endpoint is a work in progress- if that is true then yes my question is answered. 

 \
**Brandon**: 

Goes through a live [PARAKEET/Polyfill](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill) ​demo

Opened GH for usage examples, whether you are acting as DSP or SSP how can you use the polyfill.

This is what Mehul was talking about in the previous presentation; whether you are a DSP or SSP, how do you include the polyfill library on the page, and what are the steps w/ code examples. 

We have a Code pen example here -- We will publish this as soon as the endpoint is publicly available

I want to add some interest for the Contoso org- we join the group- this is the only code you need, it is quite simple

 We are ready to request the ad bundle and display it 

 Any additional interest groups - if it is contextual 

We are going to request the ad - right now this is going to the demo endpoint

**Mehul**:  Going to the request you can see the proxy an origin - we will be handing over the request in RTB type Schema- in the dev env you will be able to see but will provide more documentation on this.

**Brandon**: We have made one ad request out to a well-known endpoint 

**Mehul**:  the join group is the one we joined as the user was browning

Bing, IO, and Contoso all have access to the same user features

**Brandon**: these joint groups would be replaced with the encrypted blobs

**Jeff**: Can we go back to the publisher page flow



*   one thing that is common for Ad networks to do today- in the case of a contextual request, they may want to coordinate multiple ad slots on the same page- all the ads on the same page match.
*   Since this is run at the ad level of a  single iframe coordinating ads would no longer be possible? 

**Mehul**:  that is a great question, the request config is created before iframe is created, you should synchronize then send to iframes

**Jeff**: are you saying ad request is able to take multiple ad request configs

**Jeff**: you are going to get 3 separate requests to your ads server

**Mehul**: multiple ads is a good question & is an open question- 

**Jeff**: In Fledge the way it works is that you have your contextual ad request first; the contextual request can be one request for multiple requests.

It does not let you do coordinated interested group targeted ads, but it lets you for contextually targeted. 

**Mehul**: issue #1 in Parakeet does talk about this but this will not be addressed in V0 but will work towards this

Yes right now you need to set ads frames for each slot 

In time we will think about supporting multiple ad requests

**Aswath**: We first want to create coordinated slots, do you want coordinated & contextual?

**Jeff**: being able to have both is ideal but being able to have contextual is crucial.

**Aswath**: if it is purely contextual there is nothing stopping you from sending this independently?

**Jeff**: If we want to compare ads that come back for contextual and both signals this functionality is needed.

**Mehul**: Brandon can you walk through Key requirements & code snippets and examples on [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill#examples)...

**Brandon**: starting w/ advertiser page- include the code on your page - add the interest groups, Pass it in the interest, we have the same example for creating the ads request. 

For encryption- any reader needs to publish. well-known - a public key in JSON format 

**Mehul**: This is great we will be checking for early adopters 

- we would like to have your key published & would like you to start using this encryption as you test

- If you have further questions open a GH issue - we’d love to see you try this out

**Mehul**:

 If there are no other questions- we can talk to Joins more & how the encrypted payload flows in



*   It would be good to see if we can align on the nomenclature - please let us know and open a GitHub issue

Next steps- this is posted on GH you can directly download and test - we’d like you to sign up

These are the capabilities - 
 * 1st -  we are trying to align w/ the RTB format - encrypt it w/ payload name, feel free to chime in if you feel this is not the right place/setup
This is where we need input on (RTB format)

 * 2nd - We are looking at validating the correctness of the response- we will be adding register flow capabilities

 * 3rd -  we will be adding trust token capabilities - we will be integrating these APIs and pass on the trust token as an ad request

Last, integrate the direct-sold component- when the ad comes back - there will be a way to compare w/ direct-sold ad

Please feel free to ask questions and provide feedback - we will encourage not only participation in the trial but the development as well

**Aswath**: want to clarify- our model can go into SSP and header bidding - both the header bidding and ad call can be compared.

**Mehul**: the original problem is when the ads going out - if it is dynamic - we will be considering this but we need to set up a standard block response. 

**Aswath**: this idea of header bidding/ direct-sold ads and browser-based ads  \
([direct sold ads and header bidding · Issue #4](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/4))

 would love input & feedback on the proposed model 

**Mehul**: we will open a GH issue & will post more details on this

**John**: I wanted to get a level set of the intended direction of PARAKEET from here- I get the ask for testing the Polyfill

But what should the development community take from this around intended convergence between browsers?

**Erik**: I think as both we and the chrome folks have been calling out we have proposals that have similarities and significant differences and we would like the community to evaluate them & give feedback on how well it works for them as they test them out.  We are looking at mechanisms w/ the polyfill to make it iterative and easy to try out and compare the proposals.  We would like concrete feedback.. We are planning on contributing whatever we can to chromium - once we have more concrete feedback from the community, we will look at alignment where we can. We want the community to try out both. 

Ultimately the end goal being to align at some point, but we can't forecast timelines or how we get there. 

**John**: as the feedback, process flows in - and we have to make decisions around shipping for 

Do we anticipate having a significant lead time for shipping?

**Erik**: timelines are interesting here- our intent is to work w/ the community to evaluate iterate and evolve 

We want to allow ppl time to get your systems ready as things change

There will be a transition period but that needs to be established 

**Mehul**: Thank you all, we will share out the slides and notes on GitHub
