


# PARAKEET Discussion



#### **Wednesday, June 16th at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT.**

Scribe: Kelda Anderson 

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. [Polyfill Test Plan Updates](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill)
2. [Open Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)
3. Delayed Notification & Billing
4. RTB header bidding 


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
4. Paul Selden (OpenX)
5. Valentino Volonghi (NextRoll)
6. Brian May (dstillery)
7. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
8. Phil Eligio (EPC)
9. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
10. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
11. Aleksei Gorbushin (Walmart)
12. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
13. Wendell baker (Verizon Media)
14. Gang Wang (Google)
15. Prabhat, Pranay
16. Michael Kleber
17. Pierre Tsai 
18. Aditya Desai 
19. Larry price
20. Wendell Baker
21. Kawai Yung
22. Pierre Tsai
23. Chris Star


### Notes:

[Polyfill Test Plan Updates](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill)

**Mehul**: Update on the polyfill test plan we put out a service endpoint the PARAKEET GH code is up to date, and we would love to get feedback on what is and isn't working.

This is for dev use only & is not ready for Prod/ users quite yet.

This should not impact the dev work you need to do around Polyfill 

See example in the docs how it will work e2e [Polyfill Test Plan ](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill)

 

It is important to use public-key encryption s,

To provide clarity of what we are talking about when we talk about encryption. This is a super high-level flow when each advertiser's site.

See [Docs ](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill#configuration-helpers)for the publisher key format we are talking about. 

 There is a public key format example and diagram.

 This will be getting continuous updates as we make progress.

 There are higher-level values, schemas, & examples.

 It shows how the ad request is and returned

 The advertiser site changes are not very different from how the fledge shim works as well.

 

If there are questions on this feel free to chime in as we develop

We will soon have a lightweight contract for testing soon. We need to make sure the cross iframe is legally compliant - which we are currently closing on. In the future, that cross iframe disappears, which will make it a bit simpler. 

**Aswath: **We are working on a simple self-registration agreement that will allow for prod testing, which we should have ready pretty soon and will allow more people to participate.

 

Questions..

**Michael**: Just to make sure in this polyfill version, there is no anonymization step to them? It's transmitted fully, or is there truncation or blurring of the signals?

**Mehul**: There is no anonymization applied, we want to make sure the debugging structure works E2E first.. so you could include all features / user ID for now.

All features come outs as they goes in, to make sure there is no loss of the data

The objective is to have a dev validate flow E2E verify the data flows etc. 

Ensure there is no loss of the data, the objective is to have a dev validate flow E2E

K anonymity is an important aspect of it but we need to have a sufficient number of user groups

Differential privacy needs a sufficient number of large user groups so rightly said we will not be doing that yet.

 When we have enough users interacting we will start doing ab testing w/ differential privacy trade offs and look at how KPI compares

**Michael**:

You can't apply K Anonymity until there are enough people involved 

 I worry that waiting might give people an inaccurate impression of what it will be like when the bidding signals are not transmitted faithfully.

Want to be able to test E2E it would be very useful to have a baby version that strips down the signals. So they are not the full fidelity signal

 So ppl can evaluate what it's like to work in a world where the signals are not the same / are stripped down from what we have today at bidding time.

**Mehul**: \
That is important, we are thinking on creating a side service for this.

Since it's binary data, you can look at data/ information loss. The real value metric will not be clear yet. There are a lot of 2nd & 3rd order impacts when you start applying K Anonymity. Some unique targeting may never work.

We could open an issue on this and open a debate.

Do we want K Anonymity and interest groups to be evaluated before testing?

**Michael**:

Would love to hear from potential testers in the room

**Aleksei:**

Using simple logic to do this- Apply a special suffix or prefix for the user's features so you can emulate this. 

The Question is --Just to confirm

you said the interest can be removed but can it also be added?

**Mehul**: Removing is not sufficient for privacy 

**MIchael**: While additional features may be added & never shown, there is a filtering step and the proxying service.

There is an opportunity to indicate that ads should be filtered later on..?

**Mehul **:

First level logic we could filter it, short answer is yes we will support that but we don’t know if it will be sufficient.

 Our decision for which feature can be removed is dependent on the user population .. the user feature on the advertiser side needs to run on a much larger scale,

**Mehul**: feel free to test out and open issues, we will put out the Codepen demo 

**Michael**: when some issues are removed for purposes of A , will there be some ability to express of features 

**Mehul **we need to extend the interface and joint interest group a bit further & capture the weighting

**Michael**: there will need to be weighting of contextual signals as well-  Can’t be only place a weight is expressed 

**Mehul**: yes  and currently - if there is no way to achieve it w/ no contextual info they are ok to block all 

**Pranay**:

 Quick question - does contextual include 1st party data as well?

**Mehul**:

Yes we will support both flows,

1st party interests group, w/ no 3p signal

While additional features may be added & never shown, there is a filtering step and the proxying service.

There is an opportunity to indicate that ads should be filtered later on

You can set publisher signal priority - the user opt out of control, it can’t be clearly put on the request path

We will allow the blocking of certain interest groups on the response path

**Mehul**: Asking a little bit extra, but it would be great to get issues open on the GH, to document that we did discuss and we have answered issues.

**Delayed Notification & Billing**

Had 2 questions in the following FLEDGE issue:[Real Time Feedback and win notifications · Issue #175 · WICG/turtledove (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/175) on real time notification and billing.

**Valentino**: \
on one side we have a real-time notifications..

ecosystem to operate once you deploy a campaign, especially in the face of a lot of noise of certain data we have to effectively have a lot of data close to real-time to understand that we are spending the right amount of budget, the package is correct and properly sized a with a budget and we're facing the cap

 

The questions are to summarize them, on one side we have the real-time notifications for anyone of the ecosystem to you need to deploy a campaign especially in the face of a lot of uncertain data, we have to effectively have a lot of data close to real-time,

 

and we are facing a campaign without errors or it could be days or weeks before something is detected, and that's not a good experience for the advertisers spending money.

 

If the publisher chooses, having real-time feedback allows us to keep the parameter of how much they're willing to bid. Secondly, today the auction happens on the server-side, so the bid is submitted through the exchange the exchange does the billing and payment and all that stuff.

 

In the case of interest groups and how fledge and parakeet work, there are some server-side components, but also the browser resolves the auction pretty often, at least on fledge..

 

Say there are multiple SSPs involved how which SSP is responsible for the payment of the publisher as an aside, there is also a question of margins, how to margins for media, what is the predominant model. We can set the margin conversation for another day.

 

**Mehul:** The one thing I want to clarify, in the fledge call, I mentioned the fundamental difference between the parakeet flow we are asking the auction to run on the server-side whether it is running on SSP endpoint or multi hierarchical levels.

 

So let's start with the notification stats common on both fledge and parakeet.

 

**Michael: **Is it possible in the Parakeet world for the server to send out a request to multiple SSPs and resolve the auction between them, or is it one SSP for a particular ad?

 

**Mehul**:

Our model is to send to one endpoint of the publisher's preference exclusively. It could be a header if they one or talk to one SSP that works with a DSP. There is no multi SSP resolution.

 

**Michael**:

 

Got it, so aside from the negative targeting problem you're talking about where the primary ad shows by the SSP can be disqualified for some reason because it is resulting from a noisy signal. The SSP that responds will know exactly what the winning ad is, and there will be no ambiguity there.

 

**Mehul**:

That is correct. Technically it knows the correct ad.

**Micheal**:

So for the billing question, it seems important to know whether the idea is that the notification when in billing is something that happens if the winning ad is going to be the real winner or there will be another stage that means the winning ad returns from SSP and proxied through the Parakeet server returned down to the browser may not show because some code in the publisher page made a later decision to show the add or not which affects the billing question.

 

**Mehul**: Bidding notification is still a problem because of two reasons.

1. Direct ad sold by the publisher, which is from the privacy perspectives, there is no difference between one notification vs. k notification... notification is something we need to solve.

2. There is a lot of programmatic work on the view notification, not just the win action notification there would still like to get the view notification≥ We need to give a binary notification whether it is a view or not

 

**Michael**: Once MaCAW comes out, the view notification may also be a variable. Do you think a view notification is proxied through the Parakeet server?

 

**Mehul**: For direct-sold vs. programmatic, we would like to have the notification proxied through, which is a binary notification but delayed in terms of time so that it is correlated. With a delay of 5 to 15 minutes with the user action, both are binary for now. You are right when MaCAW comes along, you will have a bid computation step, but that is the future to test. Will that work?

 

**Valentino**:

w/in 5 min you can spend 10X budget that you may have set, if you go 15 min and you pick up the ad on a home site of a major site it could be exponentially expensive 

The only thing I need to ask for this request is the 5 to 15 minutes delay for the win and view notification. Who does it go to?

 

**Mehul**:

The ad creative should have the URL like the current rtb format has it. They're present in the responses of the rtb ad responses. The parameterization of the URL needs to be stripped off with an ID. That is something we need to figure out.

 

**Valentino**: 

At a minimum, we need to have a campaign object abstraction we are looking at here. Because the ad will be present in multiple campaigns and secondary, the request notification should at minimum go to the SSP and DSP because both administer the monitoring and controlling of the auction. If the resolution of the auction is not on the publisher side, it is possible that the price is modified on the server side, and the publisher wants to know how much they're making of this request to use this data later.

 

**Mehul**:

The header bidding server is the first and last endpoint, so our current proposal is to let that server know that can let the publisher, now the payout, and the DSP know the verifiability know that it is a trusted service.

 

It would be good to open an issue and make a proposal, and include the requirements needed like auction id and necessary variables.

 

**Valentino**:

I am looking through we can look at making a proposal. The open x folks and some partners are looking at the billing in particular as it applies to fledge.

 

**Pranay**:

1st - why does direct sold need to have a delay?

it should be rendered in a normal safe frame like it does today instead of a fenced frame

2nds the winning notification needs to go to ads server that the Publisher works w/ -  why does this need a delay?

**Mehul**: this is an adversarial point of view - there is an assumption that entities are working together to identify the user ID/data

In an auction, if publisher bids extremely low, you can create a hypothesis of the user and connect user information

 The risk is that the time ads the value, that must be my user at X time 

Even w/ delay there is a risk but the risk goes down

**Pranay**:

there is a floor price, which may have no chance of winning anyways 

**Mehul**: assumption, this is an adversarially POV we need to protect against

**Pranay**: We have safeframe and iframes, if both are to be in fenced frame w/ delayed reporting..

We should be talking about how to minimize adversarial not creating a blanket solution that could be problematic.

**Mehul**: we’ll take it as an open issue

 It is necessary based on info flows, and could introduce some constructs..

There is a risk of giving real time, we hope to identify adversarial behaviour 

**Michael**: \
Agree, this is what is referred to as the 1 bit leak from fledge proposal, it seems like in Parakeet we should be in a better place to allow the direct sold ad to render w/o the fenced frame

In Fledge we know which case the on device auction & that the  interest group targeted ads were not the winner

Where as in Parakeet case the K anonymity constraint means that even if the pub page or direct sold network the SSP should not know which SSP auction did not win, it seem like rendering Direct sold outside may be more palatable here

**Erik**: It is a bit different since in PARAKEET, we are talking to the SSP and DSP in that moment,

The ad returned is influencing that boolean, and it can be a very specific ad/ bid. 

 The concern is that they could attempt to identify, can make a super low bid and can deduce the user.

Perhaps we can look at a reverse K- anonymity solution.

**Mehul**: if publisher like direct sold bid, could be in a super high /unique position and deduce 

**Pranay**: Question Video ads-in fence frame you’d make additional network calls when user engages - It seems unlikely you would not make network calls in the video scenario

**Erik**: if it gets engagement - there would be an opening of network activity..  video scenario good to understand what Direct Sold ads usually do 

**Mehul**: can take notifications conversation offline to follow up on

**Michael**: A single binary notification that says that this ad was the winner is probably not enough 

1st the ssp is going to want to let the DSP that provided the winning ad won on the SSP auction level even if it did no win on the browser yet. that could help w/ the exponential spend issue 

2nd The notification from the browser + events in the ad lifecycle like when the ad shows up in view/ on screen

Can other signals be sent back- to Make sure this is an actual person and is not a bot

 There is a stream of info, not just views and win notification .. the whole lifecycle and what is passed through the P server need flushing out

**Mehul**:Need to think about this  - win& view notification is what we need to think about immediately

We can continue to debate as MaCAW will be impacted by this
