<!-- Output copied to clipboard! -->

<!-----
NEW: Check the "Suppress top comment" option to remove this info from the output.

Conversion time: 1.344 seconds.


Using this Markdown file:

1. Paste this output into your source file.
2. See the notes and action items below regarding this conversion run.
3. Check the rendered output (headings, lists, code blocks, tables) for proper
   formatting and use a linkchecker before you publish this page.

Conversion notes:

* Docs to Markdown version 1.0β29
* Wed Mar 24 2021 23:59:23 GMT-0700 (PDT)
* Source doc: PARAKEET
----->



# PARAKEET Discussion

## Agenda:

(notes at the bottom of this doc)



1.   Advertiser Brand Safety 
2.  Direct sold inventory & bidding solutions
        1.  [Direct sold ads and header bidding · Issue #4 ·](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/4)<span style="text-decoration:underline;"> </span> 
        2.  [Support simple comparison against ad server ads. · Issue #5 ·](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/5)
3. Outline Parakeet Experimentation Objectives & Timeline


## Attendees (sign yourself in, alphabetical order please):



1. Aram Zucker-Scharff (The Washington Post)
2. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH / IAB Tech Lab)
3. Brian May (dstillery)
4. Christa Dickson (Meredith)
5. Christy Harris (Future of Privacy Forum)
6. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
7. Grzegorz Lyczba (openx) 
8. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
9. Kiran Gopinath (BanterX)
10. Kristen Chapman (Salesforce)
11. (OpenX)
12. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
13. Paul Selden (OpenX)
14. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
15. Rotem Dar (eyeo)
16. Stephan Porz (eyeo GmbH)



## Notes
Mehul Parsana: Starting with Direct sold- Issue #4 / Issue #5 
	How does the publisher direct sold inventory participate integrate w/ API flow
	1st. publisher can leverage current flow - direct flow w/ direct contact & url context
	2nd. Outlined in Issue #4 / Issue #5  publisher can fetch direct sold on their side 
	• As a part of this we could accept the floor and the service will handle this - when ad comes back from the ad network they will check against the floor
	• It will be compared internally and they can pitch the direct sold ad or the ad that comes back
	• The floor from the publisher will not be broadcasted to the network
	• The process could be seen as a little bit of the auction but it is really a comparison of the floor
		 
Brian May: couldn’t you require the floor be a simple number that gets passed along & does not provide specific info to the ad network?
 
Mehul: Yes if we control the precision of the floor, we could add noise to it - we need to put the floor type there not the floor itself
	Both options could be there but we need to think about that number
	Truncate after that digit and white noise over time it gets canceled out
	It can broadcast if direct sold- if floor is fairly constant it could pass a bar 
	 
Brian: It seems like it would give the possibility to do things down stream
 
Mehul: Yes  Could give the range of the floor as well
	We need to make sure it passing the bar -
	It's a Combination of the C’
	 
Aram: 
	Adding his support of transmitting a floor
	want to make it clear that the floor is not necessarily set by the direct sold ad its set as part of a bid optimization by the publisher
	so it can be something as simple as a $ amount ( down to 2 dec places)
	And having a floor in what is sent will create smoother experience downstream
	It will make sure we do not have empty ads
	W/o the floor we may get  situations that we get back responses that none of them hit the floor & there are empty ads
	 
Mehul: Yes that is fair - we will clarify in the issue
	I do agree that it's not necessarily a direct sold bid but could be the publishers configuration do how they want to set the direct sold
 
Erik Anderson: would say that- there is always a joinability risk 
	We will have to think more creatively about this
	Multiple ads may pass different thresholds
	 
Mehul: for this open issue feel free to add additional detail in GitHub - we can add a few constructs and update the main Proposal
	 
Michael Kleber:
		A bit confused because there are a lot of roles the floor could play 
		Of course there is the joinability risk - will need to solve this 
		But from an ad auction mechanic point of view there is a risk that when adding noise to the floor being added up over time -this is a local Differential Privacy risk
		For the chrome design we are trying to stay away from local Differential Privacy as it leads to a large amount of error - error caused by adding noise over time 
		When you add them all up the amount of variant from the correct value is spread out over time- it does not cluster towards 0 but in a big O square root of N sort of way
		w/ DP - Errors really add up
		 
Mehul:  A correction around that is the noise will accumulate where the mean is not the variant. If we are using white noise the mean should be 0. It should cancel out- the mean should be 0 plus or minus 
		It is a variance term not the mean
		 
Michael: it’s the variance that grows  - you end up a variance that is for example 1000 X 5 cents 
 
Mehul: w/ a central limit it should cancel out-95% w/in true value, I will expand on this/write this out in an issue.
 
Michael: as a % change it stays small but as an actual $ amount it grows 
 
Mehul: as a mean bid it needs to come from another place 
	Our initial idea is not to broadcast this but keep the comparison contained, the challenge is that an ad network/ exchange could send K ads -   if all of them below the floor this compute could happen
	..  Want to make it more efficient
	 If there's a change below the floor - it’s just a minimum bid
	 
Michael: that’s good - if it’s just a filtering operation it is pretty harmless to send a lower floor,
	 If the noise vs of the floor gets used for accounting purposes or second pricing it can have a negative financial impact
	When it is only for filtering for the floor noising can be harmless
	 
Mehul:  Yes that's definitely a possibility thanks for bringing it up
	One sided noise has a zero impact on actual details w/ randomization
 
Aram Zucker-Scharff:
	1. Is 2 Decimal places too much data to avoid privacy concerns?
	2. We look at floors 2 ways - 1st the ecosystem of advertizing this tends to have a downward pressure 2nd reason for floor is to protect against/ filter out low quality ads & content
	I want to support passing the floor. Some lambda-ness or a general number. Wasn't clear from discussion, but he floor may not be set by the direct-sold ad. Done by optimization by publisher. Can be as simple as a dollar amount or down to two decimal places. Some sort of floor in what gets sent would probably make things work more smoothly downstream and leave us with fewer empty ads. We may get back responses where none of them hit the floor and then we have empty ads.
	 
Mehul: all ads need to be above the floor value, Right?
 
Aram: Yes for bidding - but direct sold ads may need to be delivered regardless of CPN
	Some publishers like to change floors as a response to bids - actively adjusting to level set against networks
	Additional complication could be that Floors can be set differently to different ad exchanges based on their performance
	Update based on a slow DSP - or slow exchange 
	There is not a timeout factor - maybe that is something that could be passed to publisher side to deal w/ that concern
	 
Aswath- 
	Clarification question -  how dynamic is the floor? From an operational sequencing stance -is it that the direct sold ad comes back and the impression is deturmined and then passed to PARAKEET?
	 
Aram: Publishers determine the floor independently form direct sold calculation - maybe when there is both an exchange & direct sold ad they make the choice to change it
	Direct sold ads are not always at a CPN basis
	 
Aswath: Publishers have a handle on giving floor to a service like parakeet - there is a way for them to figure out the floor impact?
 
Mehul: yes - they usually have a handle on this - sometimes there is a dynamic floor that changes over time but it's usually handled locally w/ the publisher
 
Aram: Where is the publisher ad server is positioned in this model?
 
Mehul: this is an independent call - do not need data or cookie to fetch this ad- different publisher follow different models
	 When you create ad frame for programmatic you provide a certain configuration for the programmatic & if ad fails to meet this the ad would not be placed & you can monitor this
	 The current direct sold functionality should work
	 
Rotem Dar: So if it’s direct sold it should run through the regular field - AKA google ads manager otherwise it should run in the browser/service?
 
Mehul- correct
	- there are too many ideas out there for the browser to control
	 
Mehul- Moving on to Brand safety 
	Anonymizing the context for the ad networks and ad exchanges and when bidder is participating it might not have enough info about the actual pages.
	Sensitive news content etc.
	Bidder concerned about page content and do not want to participate on a page w/ certain slots / content
	We are exploring a two fold idea:
	• 1st the ad could come back w/ certain restrictions in this case there are multiple ads-  K ads - w/ restrictions around pages they do not want their ad to appear- set w/ a set of tokens
	• There are 3rd party context analyzers that would independently score context C  w/o user feature - These brand protection tools could receive the publisher context and return either 0 or 1 
	• Then ad network ad would have a dependency on this to decide to serve or drop the ad.
	• When the 3rd party brand safety provider are called they would be using publisher 1st party context not user feature context
	This is a generalized flow that would be for multiple providers-  a model that could be a bit restrictive…
	 
	 
Michael- 
	sounds like on-device approach in TURTLEDOVE/FLEDGE/etc. Brand safety signals do not get propagated to ad networks.
	I agree w/ direction here, as long as signals are not sent to the ad networks
	 
Mehul- clarifies it may be called by the publisher prior to the call into PARAKEET.
	2 parts it is client side config they could be independently called to get compete context c
	To be clear his is not a runtime tool most f the time the content is static 
	It would be helpful to have a discussion around this on GH -We would like to get feedback & thoughts on this
	 
Aram: do the ad networks receive the URL on which the ad is supposed to appear?
 
Mehul:
	the ad network wouldn't receive the full URL, It will receive domain name and publisher ID.
	 
Aram :
As long as the domain name is in there I think that's important; lots of advertisers run block lists or allow lists at the domain level. One of the problems we have now is folks win their bid and then blocks the ad & have to scrape back the funds.	 
I am a little confused about where the call should exist within this context. Scans publisher page and works on ad proxy step? Or publisher page and attach it on the ad request?
domain name is important we would want them to keep being able to do that, it’s also best to determine brand safety before calculating the winning bid.

Mehul - 
	we are flexible as long as it doesn’t become an inline call. Our service could make a call for URLs independently. Or if DSP doesn't trust the publisher and wants service to do it and then cache it.
	would like feedback on this - it  just can not be request time flow
	 
Aram - is there a way for publishers to present this in real time?
	 wonder if there's a way and this is maybe too privacy-revealing. But if the publisher could transmit a brand safety rating and a tool that provides the rating. I worry that abstracting the tool could create problems.
	 
Mehul -  yes, trustworthiness is important. We would need to check / qualify that it has been provided by brand safety provider
	Want to keep it a part of the response
	 
Brian - 
	Seems like issues around billing. Brand safety is a value-add someone is paying for. Seems like you'd want to know specifically if this is something you need to pay for or not.
	 
Mehul - 
	Publisher adding that tool but not necessarily paying. Demand provider needs to trust them. Payment model should not change, e.g. Microsoft taking a dependency on a brand safety tool they know how many impressions they were protected by and pay for that.
	 As a publisher we would want to get the score to participate but it could be a free classification.
Brian- seems like issues around billing. Brand safety is a value-add someone is paying for. Seems like you'd want to know specifically if this is something you need to pay for or not.
 
Brendan (eyeo)-
	there's been some effort to put publisher content for local signal, to shoehorn that into a spec. I've been drafting some ideas for 3p brand safety and compact signaling. Would love to chat with Aram.

Aram-
	sure! And for my question. The brand safety tools… they bill twice. Publisher for operating on page and network for each impression. Not saying that's how I'd like to have things continue in the future but you're likely to get some resistance on that if they can't tell what transactions they worked on.
	Not saying that this has to be there in the future but both sides may want to know who provides the brand safety rules
	 
Mehul- fair point- thank you for the correction 
	we had a brand safety thing. We understand contextual signals can impact bids as well. Working on flow where an accurate bid can be re-computed. We'll have a new explainer out with more MPC. But we might have some early tools for folks to try out.
		We want to make sure we are not missing out on the bid 
		Pease document in the GH so we make sure we want to make sure we don’t miss out

Aram-  
	One other thing … brand safety equation includes anti-fraud equation. Two ways we've established. Brand safety tool on the publisher side. If we're doing a lot of anonymization….

Mehul-
	For fraud I feel that the Trust Token/Privacy Pass system is a very good setup. Hard for a publisher or any tool to determine fraud or not.
	redeem trust token on Advertiser side to determine validity

Aram: like the idea of trust tokens it would be good to call this out in the Proposal
 
Viraj Awati: 
	more of an understanding of some of the concerns. Can you give an example-- say I have contextual signals and interest group signals, and I have to convert into s' with DP. What's the best intuitive way to look at it? Is it going to be in some embedding space that it would be replaced?

Mehul - 
	 Great question. When the user puts interests into dimensions as a binary vector… huge top-level vector across sites and DSPs. We're trying to, as a vector, cluster a representative vector. A few other ideas in the pipeline. High-level way to think about it is that it picks a vector as close to the user vector but also k users in it. If there's a very unique feature it's more likely to get dropped out. A reasonably popular feature would more likely survive. Not feature-by-feature but looking at the vector space altogether.
	One last clarification on that-- output is original feature space and not the embeddings. You get info about interest in books, shoes, etc. but different features dropped or added.
Viraj:
	The way to look at that is the total universe is for the advertiser or their own domain? Not cohort across everything?
Mehul :
	no, cohort is across all advertisers. Next level of threat model is DSP common across advertisers could use it as a linking mechanism. Subspace ideas we have but complicates discussion. Might in the future do something to open up subspaces.

Viraj- 
	In that case, no taxonomy for defining interest groups. Me doing books as something vs. someone else does books as X?

Mehul:
	Privacy process doesn't assume anything about taxonomy. Protected by namespaces. If DSP is operating with Walmart or multiple advertisers, it could put taxonomy on feature space it agrees on or it could further namespace walmart.microsoft.book vs. amazon.microsoft.book. Browser not making any assumption about hierarchy or relationship of features.
 
Viraj: got it, as long as you have namespace you are subspacing it in some way…
 
Erik: 
	we would like to continue to have more sessions, also thank you Michael for opening another issue, we would also like to discuss future experimentation & timelines.
	For experimenting we’d like to setup a JS polyfill to allow for more rapid iteration
	Is there a specific area that we could have this handled by the browser? We are open to whatever works best.
	 
Valentino: request, does not seem that the browser APIs need to be different from fledge it would be nice to keep it at parity for testing between proposals
 
Erik: we do want to streamline to reduce cognitive load 
 
Mehule - We will figure out how to keep it similar 
	Will need to have ad request flows & context flows different but will try to keep the contracts similar
	 
Erik: it is the goal to get interop, we are not forecasting any specific outcome right now but want to work together.
 
Michael K: we are absolutely open to figuring out a similar path
	...There are some obvious differences, especially around handling of the contextual request, but we should figure out a way to get these to work together
	...Excited to see first iterations of how the anonymizing proxy will work, changing (C,S) to (C',S'), to see the costs and benefits of this approach 
	 
Brian: are you providing something that mimics what the proxy will be doing
 
Erik:
	We are looking to have JS polyfill library - we may need to do more of an origin trial exploration but we want to start w/ the lighter weight implantation 
	We will communicate around future discussions & meetings 
	In the meantime please continue open GitHub Issues as well 

