

# PARAKEET Discussion


#### **Since this week is the 2021 Privacy CG Virtual F2F, we will reschedule this meeting to be**


#### **Wed, June 2nd at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT.**

Scribe: Erik Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



1. **[Open Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)**
2. [PARAKEET Polyfill & Polyfill test sign up ](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/issues/7)


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Andeson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
4. Paul Selden (OpenX)
5. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
6. Brian May (dstillery)
7. Larry Price (OpenX)
8. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
9. Julien delhommeau (Xandr)
10. Wendell Baker (Verizon Media)
11. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
12. Nishanth Chandran (Microsoft)
13. Phil Eligio (EPC)
14. Mike Pisula (CitrusAd)
15. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)


### Notes:


#### Polyfill:

Mehul: John will go over it, code snippets in GitHub, how keys and encryption work for interest group sharing and a working example of it. Reach out via GitHub issues if you need help.

John Mooring: &lt;showing a diagram> The encryption flow-- a request comes into the PARAKEET proxy service. That request could be handled by multiple advertisers on the backend. Each advertiser has their set of user interests. As they’re all going to be contained in the same request, we need a mechanism to prevent an advertiser reading another advertiser’s interests.


 We pull a public encryption key from each advertiser and use that to encrypt that advertiser’s set of interest groups in a particular request.


 We’ll show an example of a PARAKEET-compatible advertiser server. We use JWK in the request. To onboard, you’ll need to explore an additional endpoint in addition to the ad bundles endpoint. Add a .well-known/parakeet.jwk URL.


  &lt;showing demo> We load a public and private key pair and fetch the ad bundle to .well-known/ad-bundles.


  &lt;showing sample output>: include key ID; it will be passed back to you so that in the event of a key rotation you’ll know what private key to use to decode the request. In the flow, this endpoint will be called by PARAKEET. Initially with every request, but expect it to be out-of-band and cached in the future.


  &lt;showing actual request>: we’ve added a user to a few ad groups. The URL would be for your advertiser site. We’re also requesting targeting, coarse-geolocation, and user-ad-interests. No k-anon anonymization yet. But you can see our interests were not passed in plaintext.


  &lt;showing decoding the interest groups>: we decrypted it using our private key.


 That’s the flow; it’s pretty simple. Happy to help provide reference implementations and provide any help you need through github.

Mehul: it could be an advertiser key, but it could also be a DSP endpoint and in that case the DSP would need to publish a public, well-known key to make sure we’re encrypting the data they should be reading and no one else on the wire can read the data. If we don’t find the key right now, we’ll pass it as plaintext. If you haven’t published a key or are debugging something we’ll provide it as plaintext. Wanted to make sure as part of the test we could ensure we’re not passing interests to other advertisers.

Julian Delhommeau (Xander): a reader has to publish a public key for the service to encode. Does that mean if I’m an advertiser and I create an interest group, I have to make the DSP the reader of the interest group? An advertiser can delegate the reading to any DSP it wants?

Mehul: correct.

Julian: we get the SSP on the page… does the group interest get encoded for every DSP that can be a reader of the interest group? So the SSP can read for each DSP?

Mehul: when the ad request is going to the SSP, the SSP should be able to see who the readers are who have encrypted payload but not what it is. It can pass the entire payload, e.g. if there are RTB servers along the way, or it could choose to pass the payload for just a given DSP as an optimization. The SSP will have visibility into the reader names.

Julian: let’s say there are tens of DSPs each with a reader for its interest groups. When a user goes on a publisher page, calls an SSP, goes through PARAKEET, will every interest group be sent to the service, encoded through the public keys. Then the SSP will need to forward the correct interest group to the right DSP? My question is… wouldn’t that mean there could be a lot of information going from the browser to the PARAKEET service and then the SSP? There could be hundreds of interest groups. Is there any logic to define what gets sent?

Mehul: that’s what we want to do as part of the test. Every reader will be sent. We will think about some publisher controls in terms of if it doesn’t want to show ads from someone. To answer your question, we send all of the readers and their data in the ad request which will, yes, be a lot of data. It’s a stateless way of serving the ad request to honor the user’s choices.

Mehul: any other questions about the key construct? Last time Brandon showed an example with our sample ad server. On the github, we highlighted the test changes required for an ad server to make, the changes for an advertiser page to subscribe to interest groups, and changes needed for an SSP to forward the data of an interest group. If it’s helpful, we can go through that really quick on this call.

Kelda: an overview of that would be helpful.

Mehul: let me show a deck to clarify details and fill in folks who weren’t able to make our meeting last time.

[https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill](https://github.com/microsoft/PARAKEET/tree/main/Polyfill), [https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET-Polyfill-V0-Testing.pdf](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/PARAKEET-OpenDiscussion/PARAKEET-Polyfill-V0-Testing.pdf)

Mehul: let me recap the three changes required:


 (1) on the advertiser page which can be done by the advertiser or a buyer/DSP script running on the page; there’s polyfill sample code referenced here-- get the library, include it in your page, it enables some of the functions required which will be in the browser in the future; you can use any first-party understanding to register interest groups-- could be based on server-side or local understanding; ultimately ends in a navigator.joinParakeetInterestGroups call; once you join you can set the reader(s) for the list of DSPs and SSPs to allow to read


 (2) for the DSP, at ad request time, whatever features were added for the user will become available. You’ll decrypt the user features coming in the request, select the best ad based on user-interests and context (similar to current flow, but with segments directly instead of using a user ID). Then respond with a bid and creative.


 (3) for the publisher, include the polyfill on the page which enables a set of APIs to create an ad request. You call navigator.createAdRequest with configuration and then, in the current polyfill, when the promise resolves you get a creative URL back to set on the ad iframe.


  From an SSP perspective, there shouldn’t be much of a change.


  Polyfill info page on GitHub has a lot of details. We were thinking of creating a mini web service example if that’s helpful-- let us know. We strongly encourage going through the document, though, since it gives a lot of info on the framework of the test. This is a development-only setup at this time, please don’t use in production yet. If you’d like to use it with live traffic, please sign up through our signup form so we can make sure the user data is appropriately protected and data rights handling is compliant with various rules when you start including that.

Wendell Baker: you mentioned you’re going to launch this product in the coming months and we can use the preproduction version. Can you go over how that will work and what the business terms will be?

Mehul: that’s a great question. We haven’t outlined the business part of the contract yet-- we’ll get back to you on that. The current framework is focused on making it work and the current setup won’t have an additional contract. For production we’ll get back to you on if we’ll need to have some signup for the alpha trials. Sorry I don’t have a clearer answer on the business contract side.

Wendell: we’re looking for some surety to have ad contracts for running their businesses with Microsoft. Maybe that’s a biz dev piece we need to get in place.

Mehul: yes, we’ll follow up this week and provide an update via GitHub on how it will work.

Kelda: we’re actively working through it but haven’t 100% landed on how we want that to work. Open to suggestions and feedback as we work to flesh it out.

Wendell: there are other solutions out there-- prebid… this is starting to look a whole lot like UID2 with some privacy salt on top of it. The earlier you can clear that up the better.

Mehul: while we figure that part out, we strongly encourage you to try the development setup. As mentioned in the last meeting, we’re trying to align where we can with the RTB format and put the info in a specific field in the request so that way it can minimize the changes further on the ad server side-- DSP or SSP-- instead of buyer/user ID you get a payload under the user data context for the interest group list.

Pranay Prabhat: I think we discussed this before but I can’t recall-- the publisher context-- if it wants to pass custom segments for the page the user is on, how will that be handled?

Mehul: if you look at the createAdRequest payload created by the publisher, you can pass page-focused or user-focused targeting info. It’s first-party data going through in plaintext. We were considering a reader restriction but aren’t sure it’s needed-- feedback welcome.

Pranay: this might be in line with the taxonomy work going on in IAB. I wonder if there should be two arrays-- audience taxonomy and contextual just to keep them separate.

Mehul: we can consider that if it’s helpful if they’re separate things. We want to make sure to handle additional fingerprinting service-- consider them together along with the rest of the payload either way for that k-anonymity analysis.

Pranay: we also talked about programmatic private auctions. Do you expect some of that data to flow from the publisher?

Mehul: flows as key-value pairs?

Pranay: more like a deal ID.

Mehul: could be included in the payload. If there are more format changes that need to be changed, we’re open to that. We want to iterate on this sort of thing. We can also update examples; they’re simplistic right now.

Pierre Tsai (NextRoll): here at NextRoll we’ve seen a lot of interesting ideas come out of this workgroup. As we prioritize our testing resources on various specs, can you comment on how this might manifest in the eventual outcomes in terms of what share of our business this will affect?

Mehul: not sure how to answer that…

Pierre: if all things go well, we get this testing phase done, where can we expect this to be adopted?

Erik: is a bit a couple of meetings ago-- look at the minutes for some more context. We want alignment where we can, we are trying to land on a proposal that has great privacy primitives 

We are looking to influence the path of the chrome team proposals 

we are engaged w/ fledge proposals as well 

the goal is to align 

 as far as high level goal is that we want alignment 

 we are going to take this a long quite a ways and we do plan to ship this in Edge

Pierre: how can we find out when other SSPs and publishers are getting involved?

Mehul: NextRoll is a DSP. We would like your server to be ready. As you’re ready and start seeing interest groups, start reacting to that. In the request, there will be a transition phase where the user ID and interest groups are available. At some point the ID will go away.

Pierre: something that has helped us elsewhere is if we can pair with an SSP and/or publisher to scale participation that we can test with. In the plans?

Mehul: yes, that’s why we have the sign-up sheet. If you sign up as a DSP, we’re working on the other side. It’s a chicken and egg/cyclic problem. We are trying to find a way to scale that. We’ll follow up but we do want to identify supply and DSPs that are ready to try for real production traffic testing. If SSP and DSP aren’t ready yet, though, it’s just extra payload.

Pierre: doing work just to be on a list is problematic-- need to have an actual partner.

Mehul: yes, we’re working on that. Changes on the SSP side are more minimal and a passthrough. Publisher will need to add the polyfill to their page, but changes are otherwise more required on the advertiser and DSP side.

Wendell: you’re seeing feedback in the polite public forum. This is a nice research project, but we’re not sure you’re going to build this. We might do speculative development to help you build that product… I hope it’s clear to you where we sit in the ecosystem at this point. We’re waiting and listening but need more surety here.

Mehul: we are starting to rolling out changes-- not will we or will we not build it, it’s not just on paper anymore. The train is already leaving the station. We’re not just building a list, we’re building out the service. That’s a great comment and we’re committed.

Erik- the feedback is great I certainly understand folks who are hesitant in 

The polyfill should not be seen as a lack of commitment 

It is a way for us to move faster 

I do think the business side feedback is great as well 

If you have more feedback on this GitHub is great or offline works too

Mehul: we’ll keep covering the polyfill in future meetings and can fill in more details. Issues welcome. Lots of advertiser things overlapping with FLEDGE, so we will continue to resolve that jointly.


#### Direct sold issue #4

Mehul: I provided a high-level construct we’re looking at in the issue. The PARAKEET response and direct sold ads from the publisher/SSP server will get passed into the Fenced Frame where a piece of publisher JavaScript can pick the final set of ads, calling the reportResult API similar to FLEDGE (but also a little different) to register the impressions with the browser. All done within the fenced frame without networking access. We also added some info about how quickly we can respond with info about how quickly the result can be reported which has some privacy implications.

Pranay: I hadn’t looked at the response yet, I’m looking now and it looks good… the comparison happens in the fenced frame and the result is reported, how do you expect the rendering to happen for that ad?

Mehul: thinking of having an ad callback for the rendering of the ad. Are you trying to compare display vs native?

Pranay: I’m not very knowledgeable about this, but there’s a concept of a “safe frame” for rendering. For a direct sold ads, you don’t necessarily need it in a fenced frame and the reason is that it’s something the publisher should be aware of.

Mehul: letting it know if the direct sold ad won or lost, it has some privacy implications and should be rendered as a part of the fenced frame. Can explore something else in the future but need to handle privacy considerations.

Pranay: need to discuss more, not sure what the downsides are.

Mehul: we can comment/add info on how the binary info can be used to deterministically get info out that may not be appropriate to be leaked to the page.


##### Other business

Mehul: we’ll cover the multiple ads case in the next meeting (issue #1).

Kelda: thanks for the discussion. Please take a look at the signup form to register interest. Thanks!
