


# PARAKEET Discussion


#### Wednesday, May 18th at 5 pm CET / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663). Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



* Follow-up discussion on [PARAKEET with Noisy Ranking](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/blob/main/NoisyRanking.md) proposal 
* Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)


## Queue - raise your hand in Teams.


## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)
3.  Brian May (dstillery)
4. Joel Pfeiffer (Microsoft) 
5.  Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
6. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
7. Alexandru Daicu (eyeo)
8. Benjamin Dick (IAB Tech Lab)
9. Mike Pisula (Citrus Ad)
10. Victor Mihaiu (eyeo)
11. Davis Gilton (Microsoft)
12. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
13. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
14. Paul Jensen (Google Chrome)
15. Alex Cone (IAB Tech Lab)
16. Thomas Prieur (Criteo) 
17. Mike Pisula
18. Rotem 
19. Alex Mihai 
20. Tamara Yaeger 
21. Starr, Chris
22. Harneet Sidhana
23. Jonasz
24. Brad Rodriguez (Magnite)
25. Antoine Rouzaud (Criteo) (Invité)


### Notes:

**Kelda Anderson-** 

we have a little bit of a lighter day. We wanted to open up for to discuss open GitHub issues and any questions folks have since we've had a little bit more time to kind of digest the parakeet with noisy ranking. 

**Wendell Baker-**

I'll toss an open-ended question to you guys at at Microsoft and you know, just see what you guys can do with it. We've been playing these games and we're trying to figure out where this all goes and one year, two years, three years. So we're spending a lot of time here, both with Microsoft and Google and Headspace with Apple trying to figure out what you all are doing with browsers and stuff. So the notion that this is kind of you know, month to month, an hour to hour, waiting for that next press release, you know the Zing reveal is, you know difficult. So is there a possibility that as this plays out, there'll be multiple implementations of parakeet in other browsers, maybe even the second and third tier ones that diverge from the major code basis, or perhaps there are sponsored versions of parakeet, the server side thing that is not run by a browser vendor like Microsoft. And alright, that's probably enough to see the conversation, so I'll toss it back to you guys with that. Thanks.

**Erik Anderson-**

We have been talking about this for a while - we do want interop, I think at the same time, there seems to be some pretty big disconnects on threat models what scenarios folks want to go after. Obviously we have pat CG discussions going on this week as well, more focused on measurement still I think anything is possible. I know Google has privacy sandbox.com where it lists some proposed time frames. I think it's important to motivate folks, to understand that yes, changes are coming in terms of storage partitioning and potentially interventions and other things. We have similar discussions around Federated identity and the you know well everybody do.

Federated credential Management API or will they depend on storage access API so there's a lot of things that don't look like they're on a 100% clear path towards convergence.

For us, we are planning on building out this PARAKEET with noisy ranking. I think if you look at the proposal that it works with fledge, so to some degree there's maybe a little bit more unification, but I can't speak for Google or other browser vendors on if they will support a form of parakeet.

I think we're trying to come here to explain what our thinking is and what the properties are and what we'll build.

We would like to probably upstream as much of our No browser side code into chromium.

That doesn't imply any commitment from Google that actually ship or have a trusted mediator service, but it would enable some smaller chromium based browsers if they so choose to.

I don't know that I can give much more clarity than that at the moment.

**Rotem-**

Thank you. I'll be a little bit more specific  In the first version of parakeet, I found a lot of interest in the proposal. Regarding the trusted mediator part and if there are companies that are interested to participate.

For the present proposal, are you planning to be a bit more concrete on how folks can participate? 

How exactly it's going to work - cost wise. What's the plan in regarding to this specific aspect of the proposal?

**Erik-**

Right. I think some of that we may need to take as homework and maybe with a fuzzy due date. In the PAT CG things like our trusted execution environments, meaningful protection, multi party compute..  what is meaningful protection

 If the browser is providing it, we would want to open source as much as possible to help folks trust what is exactly running.Can't give 100% ironclad commitment, but I think we want to open source as much as the what runs in the trusted mediator as possible.

Want to look at different things to help folks have confidence that that's what's actually running and, mitigate concerns as much as possible, but at the same time I think some of these other approaches are a little science project. Uh, right now, I think we feel like we have a reasonable solution that enables some valuable things. So would we allow a third parties to run it? I don't think with the current setup we have the way that would make a lot of sense, but if folks have proposals for like I think this would be safe and I think users would understand it. 

I could potentially talk through that and then the cost structure question I think that's a great question. 

I think that's something, you know, we owe everyone more context on.

It is hard to evaluate it. If you don't know what the cost of using it is.

**Michael Kleber-**

Going back to some of the wide-open questions Wendell asked and trying to incorporate what you just said, Erik.

 So first of all on the question of differences between different browsers. I have found the discussion about fledge and PARAKEET on the new PARAKEET proposal extremely encouraging. I think that we have actually done a great job of finding a lot of common ground, even though fledge and PARAKEET are still different in a pretty fundamental way. I think that that and as Eric just said, the discussion of trusted execution environments as a kind of viable trust model that certainly Chrome is happy with it as leaning into.

I don't think we have fully converged, but I think that things are moving in a really good direction.

In my estimation of the remaining like deep gaps between the Chrome approach and the Edge approach- the core thing that remains different is if you abstract away like there's a trusted server that the browser trusts a hand information to and get information back from, which is kind of common to both proposals and which we can model as happening in some server that the browser trusts in some way. Whether there's a TEE or implicit trust because of who runs it, or multi party computation. If we abstract that away and put a big black box around it and say it just works well enough  then it seems to me like the like the remaining -substantial gap between the two proposals, is the question of whether that trustworthy black box server side support for the on device or partially on device add selection.

Whether that server just talks directly back to the browser that asked it a question or  whether part of the functioning of that server involves talking in real time to another untrusted server that is operated by SSPS or DSPS, right? That seems like certainly a remaining divide or difference between the two proposals and the way they work right now, and some of the discussion that we had last time about how the caching works and how filling the cache and pulling from the cache works still seems like stuff that I don't really understand.. Maybe even seems to offer a way to bridge that gap if the pulling if the populating the cache and pulling from the cache thing is something that can be controlled using a sort of aggregated aggregation mechanism or like some other thing that is more in line that doesn't have the.

The real time event level data risk then maybe even that that can be bridged. So I think that even though the details of the two still look different in some ways, I think these lines of discussion have done a huge amount of work on the way towards convergence. – even if there are, you know, still some notable differences between them.

Let me point out that the approach to trusted execution environment servers that Chrome described to handle the aggregation reporting API is fascinating combination of different parties doing different parts of the job.

In which the server the trusted server that does aggregation can be run by the ad tech that is actually using it. It doesn't need to be run by a third party, but it needs to be run by that person on a trustworthy cloud provider. So there's the attack that wants to use the service. There's a trustworthy cloud provider that hosts trusted execution environments that it runs on. There's another independent party that is responsible for handing out the cryptographic keys only to things that are.

A good TEE that that are, able to operate them. And then separately from all of that there is the policy question of what the code is able to do that runs inside the TEE & that is really the place where there's a gap that we were just talking about, right? Can the code running inside this TE spend some of its effort talking to a non trusted server in the line of handling a particular request or can it not talk to a non trusted server and only do things locally or talking to other trusted servers that don't do any logging or talking to outside parties. So again I think that there is a huge amount of convergence even in that who can operate things and lots of opportunity for us coming to a nice settled conclusion.

**Erik-**

Don't think I heard anything I disagreed with. You’ve identified where some of the deltas remain. 

** Rotem-**

Could be interesting to invite more parties to take part in the execution part of both proposals to some degree.

**Michael-**

Yeah,  please do check out the [Chrome proposal for how TEE](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/AGGREGATION_SERVICE_TEE.md) can be used for aggregation. If you want to see the interplay between like 4 different parties. That is how our TEE Trust proposal works. It is complicated. I haven't done it full justice in my 2 minute summary of it there, but it seems like a good path forward to me.

**Brian-**

We have a  number of proposals from the various browser vendors that are seeking to find solutions for common problems that are shared by all of us and in these proposals we're seeing different ways that you're approaching things, but I believe we're at a point now where we've, developed some level of commonality in the types of approaches we might take things like trusted servers seem to be rather ubiquitous, except perhaps for Apple.

And, various notions of noise and aggregation, and I'm wondering if the browser vendors might be able to get together and put together a set of principles to which they all agree with.

Do all the browser vendors agree that a  trusted server could be included in the mix?

Do all the browser vendors agree that aggregate data is acceptable. These sorts of things. It doesn't give us the kind of clear, actionable road map that we might get from everybody agreeing on one model, but it does give us something to work with in terms of should we focus on understanding this aspect of the technology or is that a nonstarter?

**Erik-**

Yeah, that's a good goal. so Alex's comment in the chat about private relay like debit sort of may have them partnering with some cloud vendors, but that's certainly Apple-branded and their devices choosing what service it's trusting the follow a contract where, doing IP blinding and the like .. we can invite them that they come play in the space, but I can't speak for them, of course

Brian what are your concerns?

**Brian-**

I believe there is some agreement, but if we could get a document that outlines this, that would help us determine what areas to focus on.

**Erik-**

we will have to determine what makes sense - it may be hard to put together an exact litmus. The high-level strokes are agreed upon.

I  think the measurement discussions are honestly probably the best, most structured way we have of to know there's a lot  of different proposals with slightly different threat models and it's proving very difficult & get agreement on what set of properties makes sense.

I'm glad that the conversations happening, it’s good to understand where folks concerns are and where they stand.

Brian, I think you've been in those sessions. Do you have thoughts on like, are those conversations happening? Is the concern it's not converging or? prefers some different framing.

**Brian May-**

It seems that Firefox, Microsoft, and Google will support trusted mediators. My sense is that there's agreement at relatively high level for various aspects of these proposals, and if we could Write those out and get the browser vendors to say yes, we agree with these general high level principles that would at least give us a set of guardrails or domain within which to concentrate. vs. we won't even bother with stuff outside of this because the browser vendors have not included that in the principles that they're willing to work with.

**Erik-**

I think we'll have to think about that more and I definitely some challenges with how to destructure that and in a way that makes sense. Ido agree like if folks have proposals that don't make sense to browser vendors in some way,  it's valuable for them to articulate why I totally agree with that. 

For the core privacy things around reidentification and cross site identification I think the high-level strokes are pretty well agreed upon.

**Brian-**

So just to close it off that that's the type of thing that I was suggesting is that it seems like Chrome and Edge and I believe Mozilla are open to having a trusted mediator if the those three browsers would say yes, this is a principle that we are willing to support in future designs, then we can say OK, let's include trusted mediators as part of our strategy and if the browser vendors say we're not going to support trusted mediators. Then we can put that aside.

**Erik-**

I can't speak for other browser vendors or other companies, I certainly agree there's a lot of interest in having server based technologies that to help out, I think there's significant disconnects on what are the characteristics of those servers in terms who can run them.  What bar do they need to meet in terms of like how hard it is the break their promises. The TEE is a great example,. There may be some attacks against, one entity and therefore unacceptable &  the conversation around what if someone can break in.. seems to come with an assumption, that they can't simultaneously break into two facilities, so it's all pretty, this is pretty fuzzy, ..

**Brian-**

So that's the kind of thing that I was hoping we would precipitate. If you guys agree that trust mediators good, then we start digging in on, OK, so what's your flavor of trusted mediator and where does your vision of trusted mediators diverge from that of crumbs? That's the type of thing I was hoping we could get to.

Erik- other browser vendors, can at their leisure - everyone needs clarity on where do these properties not make sense. 

I think people don't know the full answer because we're trying to figure out can we solve the right use cases with what we have -- sometimes the desired properties may get shifted a bit if absolutely required, and I think Charlie Harrison on Pat, CG call had a similar kind of question about a spectrum between intellectual purity and meeting the needs.

**Erik –**

So it looks like the drains fairly or the queue is fairly drained. Did we have any specific GitHub issues we wanted to go into event?

[Batching operation from Noisy Ranking · Issue #45 · WICG/privacy-preserving-ads (github.com)](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/45)

**Erik-**

Joel is, is there anything you wanted to call out specifically?

**Joel Pfeiffer-**

I'm not sure if Michael's question was answered sufficiently or if we should expand on that.

Where there was another issue on this advertiser isolation, I don't know if we want to discuss that here or just sort of keep it as an issue since there is active discussion there so.

**Michael-**

I think that right now I don't understand the operation of the cache and especially how retrieval of old things of cash because it requires some kind of sort of fuzzy matching. I don't think I understand that well enough to be able to form a knowledgeable opinion on whether I buy the answer or whether I think how usable it is? How reproducible it is, how much of an impediment it would be like? I think that there is a lot of thinking about.

The noisy ranking side of things that actually hinges on the details of how insertion into an retrieval from that cache works that make it hard for me to.

**Joel-**

Yes, currently it's a really nice & square, right.. like the extent of the documentation on the cache. This is a point for us to focus on 

**Michael-**

I think that I'm happy to wait for you to provide some more information before I try to like bring to bear any sort of deeper evaluation. And I would expect the ad tech folks would also need to understand more in order to.

**Joel-**

Sounds good

**Wendell-**
Thanks for continuing to show up I know a lot of work has gone into this, and a lot of learning has happened 

There is a sense of best paper winner, and many of us are concerned w/ the business side of this. We're interested in the commercial practice. How much money can we actually get out of this? Is this a real business? So the learning of what the requirements are and how business is done, I think we all can look back over the course of the last 2-3 years and see how far we've come. 

 **Erik **
- anything else folks, wanted to chat about?

 Well, thanks for calling in & see some of you tomorrow at the Pat CG measurement call.
